filed 1/24/19 p. v. sethi ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. bhuvandeep singh sethi, defendant and appellant. b286349 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka114252) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, ruben garcia, judge. affirmed. jenny macht brandt, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, idan ivri and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant bhuvandeep singh sethi (defendant) was on probation and subject to search conditions when, on two separate occasions, police officers discovered drugs and incriminating evidence during investigatory searches. although the officers did not initially detain defendant for the purpose of conducting a probation search, defendant informed them during the course of both investigations that he was on probation. the trial court found defendant violated the terms of his probationwhich prohibited him from possessing or selling narcoticsand executed a previously suspended seven-year, eight-month sentence. contentions that police officers violated his fourth amendment rights in two respects: (1) s disclosure of his probation status, because the scope of the police investigation at that time exceeded constitutional limits, and (2) after defendant disclosed his probation status, because police were ignorant of the precise terms of search conditions. i. background a. conviction resulting in probation in march 2017, pursuant to a negotiated plea, defendant pled no contest to possessing and transporting heroin and methamphetamine for sale (health & saf. code,  11351, 11352, subd. (a), 11378, 11379, subd. (a)). in accordance with the negotiated terms of the plea, the trial court sentenced defendant to seven years and eight months in jail. the court suspended execution of on the condition that he complete three years of formal probation and serve the first 90 probation included a prohibition against using, possessing, 3 buying, or selling narcotics or associated paraphernalia without a valid prescription; a prohibition against associating with people defendant knew used or sold narcotics (unless he knew them through a treatment program); and a requirement that defendant onic information and personal belongings to search or seizure at any time of the day or night, with or without probable cause, by any law enforcement under the electronic communications privacy act (pen. code,  1546-1546.4). b. probation violation proceedings 1. new charges and allegations not long after entering his no contest plea, defendant was back in court on new charges. in mid-april, less than one month after being placed on probation, defendant was arrested and subsequently charged with two misdemeanor drug offensesunlawful possession of heroin (health & saf. code,  11350) and possession of an injection or ingestion device (health & saf. code,  11364)based on an incident where drugs and drug carried as he accompanied her. at the end of may, defendant was again arrested after methamphetamine and drug paraphernalia were found in a car in which defendant was riding and incriminating text messages were found in . the people a new charge based on this second discovery of evidence of drug involvement in may. 4 the trial court permitted defendant to represent himself in the new proceedings, which were scheduled to be conducted in early october 2017. 2. motions to suppress at a status conference on september 20, 2017, before he received law library y . . . defendant referred to mapp v. ohio (1961) 367 u.s. 643 and also stated he never received any miranda advisement, referring to miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda) and dickerson v. united states (2000) 530 u.s. 428. defendant also asked the court to dismiss the probation violation allegation arising from the may 2017 incident because seizure or stop and frisk because no crime was committed[ ] and there was no probable cause of weapons or contraband being in [the] routine traffic stop instead of [an] referring to arizona v. gant (2009) 556 u.s. 332 (gant). the prosecution argued defendant could not move to suppress evidence pursuant to penal code section 1538.5 without first providing proper written notice.1 the prosecution informed 1 penal code section 1538.5, subdivision (a)(1) permits a defendant to move to suppress evidence on the ground it was obtained through an unreasonable search or seizure. motions under the statute are to items of property or evidence sought to be returned or suppressed and . . . the factual basis and the legal authorities that 5 the trial court it would be prepared to contest motions on october 2the scheduled hearing datebut only if it were . . . the court scheduled defendant to return to court in two days to address whether he had been given law library access. the court also asked the prosecutor how defendant might provide oral notice now. if he wants to give me the written motions on the dayi assume he would do it through his investigator. i the 22nd, assuming he gets moved [to the jail area allowing library access] and has the ability to write them, i can take it on the court subsequently canceled dnext court dateat which point defendant still had not received law library access. 3. adjudications a. may incident hearings implicating both the april and may searches were held on october 2 and october 3, 2017. the trial court heard evidence concerning the may case (charging defendant with violating his probation conditions based on selling narcotics) first. defendant stated he wished to exclude evidence recovered as a result of the search of the car, and the prosecution protested  1538.5, subd. (a)(2).) 6 defendant had failed to provide written notice defendant said he had come to court on that day and was told the status conference was canceledthrough no fault of his own. he said he had with him a written motion for the prosecution and had not provided it earlier through his investigator because he had had no direct contact with the investigator.2 the prosecution argued d was accepted probation in lieu of jail time. defendant responded his probation status was irrelevant because police had no reason to remove him from the vehicle police were unaware he was the trial court deferred ruling suppress evidence. the court confirmed defendant understood, however, that because this was a probation revocation hearing, it would not suppress evidence unless it was so egregious as to shock the conscience . . . 3 defendant agreed that was the correct standard. 2 defendant said he lacked funds to make phone calls and his investigator would not accept collect calls. according to defendant, he could only communicate with the investigator through an ex-girlfriend in arizona who would transmit messages from defendant to the investigator and vice versa. 3 we address the application of this standard to probation revocation hearings post. 7 three witnesses testified for the prosecution regarding the may 2017 vehicle search: the police officer who conducted the stop and search, a criminalist who tested evidence for narcotics, and a police investigator who provided expert testimony. their testimony established the following facts. on the afternoon of may 28, 2017, an anonymous caller reported to the glendora police department that a man and woman were walkisomething in his hand that was concealed underneath a rag or t-caller and saw defendant and another man, one gutierrez, leave a walgreens drugstore and get into a mercedes with gutierrez driving and defendant in the front passenger seat. the prosecution asked officer drake whether defendant ficer] got from the initial , without elaboration. there was no testimony regarding how much time elapsed between the anonymous call and when officer drake vicinity. noticing vehicle lacked a front license plate and had dark tint on the front windowsboth vehicle code violationsofficer drake conducted a traffic stop. the officer asked gutierrez to step out of the vehicle and then asked the same of defendant, who at that point told the officer he was on probation.4 officer drake searched gutierrez, defendant, and the 4 rez and defendant exit the vehicle, and d, were beforehand, by defendant himself, when the parties were arguing 8 car, but the testimony was not clear on whether some or all of these searches took place before or after defendant informed the officer he was on probation. officer drake found a bindle of what was confirmed to be 5 the officer also found syringes, hypodermic needles, and [the] vehicle.6 defendant and gutierrez each had a phone in his [-] and ten- officer drake reviewed the contents of found text messages transmitted between them. in a message sent that morning, a text from defendant to gutierrez reads:7 sic] whether he could move to suppress evidence from the vehicle stop. even though defendant was not testifying under oath when he described the circumstances under which he disclosed he was on probation, his statement could be considered by the trier of fact (the trial court in this case) as an admission. (see, e.g., people v. garcia (1864) 25 cal. 531, 534-fact made at the trial in open court by the prisoner or his counsel may be pr.) 5 the officer also found a bindle of what he believed was heroin, but the substance was never tested. 6 no evidence was presented as to where in the vehicle these items were found. 7 defendant argued the evidence showed someone else could have been sending the incriminating texts to gutierrez. because there is substantial evidence the phone belonged to defendant 9 laterapproximately 30 to 45 minutes before was pulled overgutierrez texted defendant responded[ ]the [glendora motel]and told gutierrez his location. gutierrez responded ed8 defendant replied . . . .9 during his cross-examination of office drake, defendant traff[e] that a passerby suspected [defendant] and [his] female companion were casing the area to steal . . . officer drake in his own defafter leaving walgreens because he saw a going to mess with [him did not cross-examine defendant. and he sent the texts in question, we describe the texts as coming from defendant. 8 a narcotics investigator testifying as an expert for the 9 officer drake also found earlier text messages between gutierrez and defendant. in one exchange from april 2017, defendant asked ed back a short 10 after evidence in the may 2017 case was presented, the trial court found stated it was y [penal code section] 1538.5 [motion] in that violated his felony probation by committing the offense of court relied, in particular, on the text messages between denominations . . . the court further noted that even if the evidence had not shown defendant possessed the drugs that were recovered in the search or sold them to gutierrez, the prosecution still proved defendant violated his probation because of the condition that defendant not associate with drug users. b. april incident when the parties turned to the earlier april 2017 incident, defendant again sought to exclude evidence in support of the case. the trial court stated that because the april matter (the people were pursuing a prosecution on substantive charges) of p, defendant was not precluded from filing a penal code section 1538.5 motion. the court found there was good cause to shorten the notice period for that motion, and the prosecution announced it was prepared to argue against suppression. two witnesses testified for the prosecution regarding the april 2017 incident: an arresting officer and the same criminalist 11 who tested evidence from the may incident. the facts established by the testimony are as follows. around 10 p.m. on april 17, 2017, la verne police officer daniel carrasco and his partner, officer flores, were dispatched to the area of foothill boulevard and d street after an involving a male suspect in that area. when asked whether officer carrasco saw anyone in the description of the male suspecttestified his partner did. according to officer carrasco, officer flores observed defendant and a woman officer flores asked defendant and the woman girlfriend, who was later identified as christine griffin (griffin)10to sit on the curb, and officer carrasco questioned them individually. defendant informed offion probation which included search terms. officer carrasco had on drugs. defendant carrasco spoke to him. officer carrasco then spoke to griffin, who did not appear to be under the influence. griffin was carrying two bags and said they contained both her and defendants. she and defendant both consented to a search of the bags. officer carrasco found . . . approximately ten 10 griffin initially gave the police a false name. 12 syringes a defendant and griffin both said the drugs and paraphernalia belonged to defendant.11 after the close of the evidence during the trial court hearing, the prosecution argued the anonymous tip about potential domestic violence investigation of defendant was supported by reasonable suspicion. the prosecution further emphasized (1) officers seaonly after defendant informed them he was on probation, and (2) defendant admitted to the officers that the heroin and needles belonged to him. in his argument to the court, defendant conceded he o a maintained he only wanted to suppress his statement admitting ownership of the heroinon the ground he never received any miranda advisement despite the fact that police told him to sit on the curb and refused to let him leave when he asked. the prosecution responded that defendant had not brought an appropriate motion to suppress his statement as a violation of mirandawhich related to a different constitutional amendment than challenge to the search and seizure. the prosecution further argued that even if evidence (his appearing to be under the influence of narcotics and that the drugs belonged to him) to establish he possessed the drugs. finding the officers had probable cause, as well as consent, to 11 during the hearing, defendant maintained the opposite, not him, and that he did not use heroin. 13 violated the terms of his probation because he admitted possessing heroin and drug paraphernalia and showed objective symptoms of being under the influence.12 in light of the probation violation findings in both the april and may matters, the prosecution moved to dismiss the misdemeanor charges arising from the april incident, and the trial court granted the motion. 4. sentencing defendant argued the trial court should reinstate probation on the additional condition that he attend a 12- or 14-month lock-down drug rehabilitation program to which he had already been accepted. defendant admitted he was addicted to methamphetamine and said his past attempts at sobrietywhich never included participation in a programalways failed. defendant was 38 years old, had been using methamphetamine since he was a child, and was the primary caregiver for two of his seven children. earlier conviction that resulted in his probationary sentence and he emphasized prior to the year at hand he had not been convicted of a crime for more than a dozen years. tasserted his probation 12 the trial court concluded miranda argument was meritless because exclusionary rule does not apply to probation revocation hearings (people v. racklin (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 872). the court further found, in any event, that defendant was not in custody at the time he made the challenged miranda ruling on appeal. 14 [ing] through with . . . his part of the deal.the prosecution observed defendant was associating with drug users soon after being granted probation and argued he was . the trial court acknowledged it had discretion to reinstate probation but declined to do so based on its findings that defendant violated the terms of his probation through of those incidentsthat in mayendant received his probationary sentence. , the court ruled it would execute the previously suspended sentence of seven years, eight months. ii. discussion defendant contends his probationary status did not justify admitting the evidence offered against him because (1) police conduct preceding knowledge of his probationary status violated his right to be free from unreasonable searches and seizures, and (2) upon learning defendant was on probation, police had no knowledge of his specific search conditions. these contentions do not warrant reversal. with respect to the april 2017 incident, officers acted lawfully prior to learning of defendary status because the anonymous tip about potential domestic violence was sufficiently corroborated to support questioning. the officers acted lawfully after defendant disclosed he was on probation because defendant admitted his probation 15 sented to a search of her bags. as to the may 2017 incident, officer drake acted lawfully when he stopped vehicle on the basis of vehicle code violations and asked both gutierrez and defendant to step out of the car. even if the prosecution did not elicit testimony that would firmly establish officer drake had grounds to search conduct was not so egregious as to shock the conscience. because the trial court properly found defendant violated probation on two occasions and took into account appropriate considerations when determining what sentence to impose, the court did not abuse its discretion when it declined to afford defendant another opportunity at probation. a. principles applicable to suppression of evidence in probation revocation proceedings in 1982, voters added a provision to the california right to truth-in-evidence. except as provided by statute hereafter enacted by a two-thirds vote of the membership in each house of the legislature, relevant evidence shall not be excluded in any criminal proceeding, including pretrial and post conviction motions and hearings . . . 28, subd. (f), par. (2) (hereafter, truth-in-evidence provision); in re lance w. (1985) 37 cal.3d 873, 879 (lance w.).) our supreme court has interpreted the truth-in-evidence provision as having . . . evidence seized in violation of the california, but not the federal, lance w., supra, at p. 879.) thus, unless an 16 enumerated statutory exception applies (none does in this case), excluded from a criminal proceeding if required by the fourth amendment to the united states constitution. (id. at pp. 888-890.) the fourth amendment prohibits the government from seizures . . . amend.) amendment contains no provision expressly precluding the use of evidence obtained in violation of its commands(united states v. leon (1984) 468 u.s. 897, 906 (leon).) the designed to safeguard fourth amendment rights generally through its deterrent effect, rather than a personal constitutional right of the (ibid.) sanction is appropriately imposed in a particular case . . . issue separate from the question whether the fourth amendment rights of the party seeking to invoke the rule were violated by ibid.) with respect to the former cted to those areas where its remedial objectives are thought most efficaciously id. at p. 908.) the fourth amendment does not require application of the exclusionary rule to probation revocation proceedings. (people v. harrison (1988) 199 cal.app.3d 803, 810-811, citing leon, supra, 468 u.s. 897; see also pennsylvania bd. of probation and parole v. scott (1998) 524 u.s. 357, 362-369 [minimal deterrent effect of applying exclusionary rule to parole revocation hearings outweighed by costs]; people v. nixon (1982) 131 cal.app.3d 687, 691-692 [same with respect to probation revocation hearings] 17 (nixon).) this does not mean all illegally seized evidence, no matter the circumstances, may be used against a defendant in a probation revocation hearing. it does mean, however, that in order to warrant suppression of evidence in violation of the federal constitutionthe only basis for suppressing evidence under the truth-in-evidence provisiona probation revocation defendant must demonspeople v. howard (1984) 162 cal.app.3d 8, 21-22 (howard); see also people v. lazlo (2012) 206 have specifically held that the exclusionary rule does not apply in probation revocation hearings, unless the police conduct at issue lazlo).) merely establishing a fourth amendment violation does not amount to showing the relevant police conduct shocks the conscience. (see lazlo, supra, at p. 1072 [police conduct warranting suppression of evidence in support of criminal charges was not egregious enough to warrant suppression of that same evidence at probation revocation hearing]; nixon, supra, 131 cal.app.3d at pp. 690, 693-694 [conduct that might merit suppression under exclusionary rule requiring exclusion from probation revocation hearing].) pursuant to penal code section 1538.5, a defendant may move to suppress evidence obtained through a warrantless search or seizure by filing a written motion identifying why the search or seizure was unreasonable. (pen. code,  1538.5, subd. (a)(1)(a), (2).) such motions are subject to the limitations of the truth-in- 18 evidence provision. (lance w., supra, 37 cal.3d at p. 896 [penal code] section 1538.5 continues to provide the exclusive procedure by which a defendant may seek suppression that basis only if exclusion is also mandated by the federal exclusionary rule applicable to evidence seized in violation of the 13 a warrantless search is presumptively unreasonable, and the prosecution bears the burden of demonstrating a legal people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 120.) a probation condition subjecting the probationer to warrantless searches at any time provides an obvious exception to the warrant requirement, provided the officer conducting the search f that [search] search is not undertaken for harassment or for arbitrary or capricious reasons or in an unreasonable manner.people v. durant (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 57, 64; see also people v. bravo rch conducted pursuant to a valid consent does not violate the fourth amendment unless the . . . for arbitrary or capricious ; people v. douglas (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 855, 862 13 section 1538.5 motion as a motion to suppress evidence pursuant to exclusionary rule principles only and proceeded as though no such written motion was required for the court to review the the people did notand do not on appealfault the trial courapproach. 19 [without knowledge an individual is on probation prior to search, (douglas).) ur review of issues related to the suppression of evidence derived from police searches and seizures is governed by people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1291.) court must find the historical facts, select the rule of law, and apply it to the facts in order to determine whether the law as resolution of the factual inquiry under the deferential substantial evidence standard. whether the relevant law applies to the facts is a mixed question of law and fact that is subject to independent people v. casares (2016) 62 cal.4th 808, 835.) b. the drug-related evidence was properly admitted 1. police had reasonable suspicion to detain defendant during the april incident defendant contends the police had no basis for detaining him in april 2017 and that the subsequent fruits of that detentionthe heroin and drug paraphernalia found bagsshould have accordingly been excluded. defendant also argues that general exclusionary principles, and not the more should govern our review of the issue. considering statement in the trial court that he wished only to suppress his statement admitting ownership of the drugs pursuant to miranda there is a strong argument that 20 defendant forfeited the appellate challenge he now makes to the al to suppress the physical evidence obtained by the police during the april 2017 incident. nevertheless, we will discuss the merits of the issue because the trial court decided the same. prohibits seizures of persons, including brief investigative stops, people v. souza (1994) 9 cal.4th 224, 229 (souza), quoting terry v. ohio (1968) 392 u.s. 1, 19 & fn. 16 (terry) and united states v. sharpe (1985) 470 u.s. 675, 68souza, supra, at p. 229, quoting terry, supra, at p. 19, fn. 16.) fourth amendment when the detaining officer can point to specific articulable facts that, considered in light of the totality of the circumstances, provide some objective manifestation that the souza, supra, at p. 231.) assuming without deciding that defendant was detained when police instructed him to sit on the curb and he complied, we conclude the detention was reasonable. a police officer may detain a suspect based on an anonymous tip provided the to provide reasonable suspiciontip. (florida v. j.l. (2000) 529 u.s. 266, 270 (j.l.), quoting alabama v. white (1990) 496 u.s. 325, 327; see also people v. dolly (2007) 40 cal.4th 458, 470-471 [what constitutes sufficient reliability depends on the totality of the circumstances].) 21 here, the prosecution elicited testimony that defendant matched the description of the person described in the anonymous tip, was located in the area described in the tip, and was seen arguing with griffin by officer flores. detention for suspected domestic violence was reasonable under those circumstances. (people v. ramirez (1996) 41 cal.app.4th 1608, 1617 [personal observations].) once officer carrasco observed defendant appeared to be on drugsand having personal the officers had further reason to detain him. in addition, minimal, and the contraband which was later discovered was the product of a voluntary consent.14 (id. at p. 1620; see also people v. woods that a consent-based search is valid when consent is given by one person with common or superior authority over the area to be searched; the consent of other interested parties is .) 14 because we conclude officers acted lawfully in detaining defendant, we need not address his contention that ordinary exclusionary rulesstandardshould apply. we note, however, that evidence of the april 2017 incident was ultimately presented only in support of a probation violation allegation and not as a basis for adjudicating defendant guilty of the substantive misdemeanor charges. 22 2. police conduct during the may incident did not shock the conscience15 defendant does not dispute officer drake had a sufficient violations, but he contends the officer had no basis to expand the scope of his investigation beyond a typical vehicle stop and should have ended the stop . defendant also contends the search was not justified by his probationary status because the officer did not know the precise terms of probationi.e., what the search conditions, if any, allowed. a police officer who stops a vehicle after observing a maryland v. wilson (1997) 519 u.s. 408, 410, 415.) accordingly, officer drake did not act unlawfully when he instructed defendant to exit the car. defendant, on the other hand, makes a colorable argument that the evidence does not establish officer drake had a lawful basis to search gutiepolice may not search a vehicle simply on the basis of a standard 15 the attorney general contends defendant forfeited arguments challenging the vehicle search insofar as it was based on the anonymous tip because defendant failed to challenge the reasonableness of the search on that basis in the trial court. we speople v. williams (1999) 20 cal.4th 119, 130-the defendant is raising and the surrounding circumstance 23 traffic violation for which the driver is not arrested. (knowles v. iowa (1998) 525 u.s. 113.) vehicle searches incident to arrest are permitted passenger compartment at the time of the search or it is reasonable to believe the vehicle contains evidence of the offense gant, supra, 556 u.s. at p. 351), but there is no evidence police arrested gutierrez or defendant before conducting a search. the police may also conduct a vehicle search based on a search conditions if to those areas of the passenger compartment where the officer reasonably expects that the [probationer] could have stowed personal belongings or discarded items when aware of police people v. cervantes (2017) 11 cal.app.5th 860, 871, quoting people v. schmitz (2012) 55 cal.4th 909, 926 [applying same holding with regard to parolee passengers].) but, as we explain, the record does not clearly establish officer drake knew defendant was subject to probation conditions that authorized the searches in question.16 16 officer drake testified he conducted the vehicle search based on the anonymous tip received about a suspicious man and vehicle contains evidence of criminal activity, united states v. ross[ (1982) 456 u.s. 798, 820-821 (ross)] authorizes a search of (gant, supra, 556 u.s. at p. 347.) here, the prosecution did not meet the probable cause standard because it did not present evidence showing the anonymous tip was reliable. (ross, supra, at p. 809 [probable cause to support warrantless vehicle search is people v. lissauer (1985) 169 cal.app.3d 413, 421 [illinois v. gates (1983) 462 u.s. 213 requires sufficient 24 defendant contends that because warrantless probation searches are based on consent, such searches are lawful only where the officer conducting the search knows the precise parameters of the search permittedi.e., the specific search conditions defendant consented to in accepting probation. (see, e.g., people v. romeo the parole context, where the scope of permissible search is imposed by lawand deemed known to the searching officer from nothing more than the fact that someone is on parolea of privacy, and hence the reasonableness of a warrantless search, may vary depending on romeo).) accordingly, defendant asserts that even if officer drake searched his phone after learning defendant was on probation, the officer had no knowledge encompassed consent to those searches.17 17 probation conditions allowing searches of cell phones and electronic data are typically imposed separately from the in re i.v. (2017) 11 cal.app.5th 249, 261-262 vehicle,sed,inherently include searches of electronic data]; see also riley v. california (2014) 573 u.s. ___ (134 s.ct. 2473, 2491) [distinguishing cell phone searches from residence searches on the ground the former ormation] . . . far more than ]; but see people v. sandee (2017) 15 cal.app.5th 294, 302 [reasonable for police officer to 25 while there are cases with language that can be marshaled , such as romeo, supra, 240 cal.app.4th 931, none of those cases addresses the precise circumstances before uswhere conditions were actually consistent with the search conducted and the searching officer was aware the defendant was subject to search conditions but did not know the particulars of those conditions. in douglas, supra, 240 cal.app.4th at p. 863, the court of must have some knowledge not just of the fact someone is on probation, but of the existence of a search clause broad enough to justify the search at issue. the douglas court did not apply that rule to the case before it, however, because the defendant in douglas was subject to postrelease community supervision which, being similar to parole, subjected him to a mandatory search condition. (id. at p. 864.) in people v. hoeninghaus (2004) 120 cal.app.4th 1180 (hoeninghaus), the appellate probation condition . . . defines the scope of consent and sets the . . . cannot know that a probationer has given advance consent and therefore cannot (id. at p. 1194.) unlike this case, however, the officer who performed the propertypersonal effectsncluded seaphone].) condition was separately imposed in open court. 26 search in hoeninghaus did so without knowing the defendant was on probation, much less subject to any search conditions. (id. at p. 1185.) thus, the hoeninghaus court did not address the issue before us. in romeo, supra, 240 cal.app.4th at pp. 951-952, the court of appeal stated that because probation search terms vary in scope, to search, without more, may be insufficient where there is a challenge to the search.the critical issue in romeo, however, was not whether the searching officer was aware of the probation condition permitting the searchthe romeo court found there was substantial evidence the officer had personal knowledge the probationers were subject to search conditions. (id. at pp. 948-949.) the problem in romeo was that the court could not probationers had consented to the search was objectively reasonable under the circumstances because the prosecution never proffered actual evidence of the operative search clause so as to show it in fact covered the search conducted. (id. at p. 955.) this case is significantly different in that respect from romeo because defendant does not claim may have been outside the scope of his probation conditions and because those conditions were part of the record before the trial court. we are mindful, however, that a search of digital devices was performed in this case and that probation conditions often separately imposed and may require special justification and tailoring. because it may be particularly important for investigating officers to know the precise contours of such 27 defendant has established the search of at least his cell phone was not justified by any exception to the warrant requirement. defendant nevertheless has not shown the deficiency requires suppressing standardwhich he concedes applies. we discuss several of the cases applying that standard to illustrate why exclusion is not warranted here. in nixon, supra, 131 cal.app.3d at p. 690, police stopped occupants were all subjected to pat-down searches and one was found to have a knife. (ibid.) another occupant was seen placing something beneath a seat, which the occupant said was beer. (ibid.) officers searched the vehicle and found nunchakus belonging to the defendantwhom officers did not know was on probationunder the seat. (ibid.) the court of appeal held evidence of the nunchakus was properly admitted in the defendanteven though the district attorney conceded application of the exclusionary rule would have merited suppression of that evidence, because the sense.id. at pp. 690, 693-694; see also lazlo, supra, 206 cal.app.4th at pp. 1066, 1072 [search of the probationer shock the conscience.) by contrast, twas offended in people v. washington (1987) 192 cal.app.3d 1120 (washington). officers in that case came across a group of five 28 people in an area where numerous drug arrests had been made in the past. (id. at pp. 1122-1123.) when the officers approached, the group quickly dispersed and the officers followed the defendant, a black man, who began to run. (ibid.) while running, the defendant dropped a bag containing narcotics and the people sought to revoke his probation for possessing the drugs. (ibid.) but the only reason the testifying officer gave to explain why he pursued the defendant was agreement with the statement that most of the black men he saw in the area usually had something to hide if they ran from id. at p. 1123.) the appeals court concluded singling out a suspect solely on the basis of his race that sense of justicemerited exclusion of the resulting evidence. (id. at p. 1128, citation omitted; see generally rochin v. california (1952) 342 u.s. 165, 166, 172 [police conduct forcibly opening the his mouth, and directing doctors to pump his stomach against his will shocked the conscience] (rochin).) absent from the record here is detailed evidence describing why and when officer drake mere absence of that evidence washington or rochin than like nixon or lazlo. as both nixon and lazlo make clear, the fact that a search or seizure warrants suppression of evidence under exclusionary rule principles does not mean the police conduct in executing that search or seizure shocks the conscience. here, there is no question that conduct did not shock the conscience. 29 officer drake testified he relied on the observed vehicle code violations to stop anonymous tip. although the prosecution did not elicit specific testimony showing how the officer connected defendant to that tip, testimony does not show, or even suggest, he decided to detain and search defendant and the vehicle because of race, personal animosity, or some other conscience-shocking reason. nor does the record show that officer drake harassed or physically mistreated defendant in any respect. as in nixon, there is here at least some testimony providing a legitimate reason for initiating the search conducted. furthermore, and making an even stronger case for the reasonableness of the police conduct here as compared to nixon and lazlo, there was evidence officer drake believed the search was consensual because defendant informed him he was on probation. while we cannot be fully certain on the record developed that phone only after learning defendant was on probation, that is the logical inference. similarly, there is good reason to presume officer drake s probation status amounted to a disclosure that he was subject to some form of search condition. and defendant does not dispute that the search conducted was in fact within the scope of his probation conditions. in sum, there is no conscience-shocking conduct of the type in washington or rochin here. while the record reveals places where the prosecution would have done better to more fully develop the testimony, that does not warrant reversal. (howard, supra, 162 cal.app.3d at pp. 21-22.) 30 c. the court did not abuse its discretion in declining to reinstate probation after concluding a defendant has violated the terms of his or her probation, a trial court has select from among several penal sanctions. (people v. bolian (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 1415, 1420-1421 (bolian).) probation on the same terms, reinstate probation with modified terms, or terminate probation and sentence the defendantto a jail or prison term. (id. at p. 1420; see also pen. code,  1203.2, subd. (b)(1).) if the court opts to terminate sentence the court may impose depends on how the court disposed of the case when it first placed the defendant on probation. . . . [i]f the court originally imposed a sentence and suspended execution of it, upon revocation and termination of probation, the court must order that imposed sentence into bolian, supra, at pp. 1420-1421, italics omitted.) a on appeal except on a showing that the court exercised its discretion in an arb [citation.] a court abuses its discretion whenever the court exceeds the bounds of reason, all of the [citation.]people v. downey (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 899, 909 (downey).) the trial court in this case recognized it had discretion to it was obligated to execute the previously pronounced sentence of seven years and eight months in county jail. the record reveals no abuse of discretion in the choice the court made. the court heard from defendantwho spoke of his lack of a criminal record for many years, his family caretaking responsibilities, and his 31 unsuccessful efforts to overcome a longstanding drug addiction. the court observed defendant was remorseful but ultimately concluded reinstating probation was inappropriate given ] disregard[ sentence previously granted. the court emphasized defendant violated probation on two separate occasions, both of which occurred very soon after being placed on the probationary sentence. the in coming to its decision were proper. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.414 [enumerating criteria to be considered by the court in determining whether to grant or deny probation, which include the recency of prior crimes, the defendantwillingness and ability to comply with probation, the effect of ; downey, supra, 82 cal.app.4th at p. 910 [recognizing the considered all facts bearing on the and concluding there was no abuse of discretion].) drug addiction may have contributed to his probation violations, that fact does not compel reinstatement of probation. (see people v. noyan (2014) 232 cal.app.4th 657, 661-663 [court did not abuse its discretion in declining to reinstate probation where the from his drug addiction]; people v. stuckey (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 898, 916 [court had discretion not to reinstate ].) 32 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, acting p. j. we concur: moor, j. jaskol, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 