filed 1/15/19 p. v. gardea ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. raul gardea, jr., defendant and appellant. b286921 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka110479) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, juan carlos dominguez, judge. affirmed. nancy l. tetreault, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and kristen j. inberg, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________ 2 a jury found raul gardea, jr. (gardea) guilty of attempted first degree murder, as well as assault with a firearm and possession of a firearm by a felon. on appeal, gardea contends that he received ineffective assistance of trial counsel and that the trial court committed prejudicial error when it denied his motion for a mistrial and overruled his objections to portions of we affirm. background i. charges the los angeles cougardea with attempted first degree murder in violation of penal code1 sections 187, subdivision (a), and 664 (count 1), assault with a firearm in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(2) (count 2), and possession of a firearm by a felon with two priors in violation of section 29800, subdivision (a)(1) (count 3). as to count 1, the district attorney alleged that gardea personally used and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury. ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d).) as to count 2, the district attorney alleged that gardea personally used a firearm. ( 12022.53, subd. (a).) gardea pleaded not guilty to all counts and proceeded to jury trial. the jury found gardea guilty of counts 1 through 3 and found true the firearm allegations. the parties stipulated that gardea had suffered two prior felony convictions. the court sentenced gardea to 35 years to life. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise designated. 3 ii. evidence presented at trial a. the attempted murder of gregory villa on may 31, 2015, gregory villa (villa) lived in pomona with his daughter, three grandsons, and girlfriend, yvonne contreras. nickname is huero. yvonne has two sisters, barbara contreras and marissa contreras.2 gardea is the father en and his nickname is junebug. yvonne has known gardea since 2007 or 2008 and saw him often at house. gardea used to give yvonne rides in his car. in the early morning hours of may 31, 2015, villa was hanging out in his garage along with yvonne and his neighbor jeremiah cooper (cooper). all three were drinking alcohol. the garage door was open and the area outside the door was lit up. the garage was also brightly lit inside. cooper leaned against a truck, which was up on blocks. villa stood with his back toward the open garage door. yvonne sat on a chair. at approximately 2:00 a.m., villa saw that yvonne had a confused expression on her face. yvonne observed someone with a bald head walking toward the garage but could not see who it was at first. yvonne then stood up halfway and saw that it was gardea. hey, was carrying a sawed-off shotgun wrapped in white tape in his right hand. gardea pointed the shotgun at villa and called out cooper heard the word gun, and jumped into the bed of the truck. villa turned around and gardea shot him in the chest and neck. gardea shot yvonne in the face, arm, and legs. gardea left but yvonne did not see 2 to avoid confusion, we refer to each member of the contreras family by their first names. 4 where he went or if he got into a car. cooper heard a car drive off and jumped out of the bed of the truck. he saw villa on the ground, stepped over him, and ran to his house. yvonne put pressure on a friend called 911 and handed yvonne the phone. the 911 operator asked yvonne if she knew who shot villa. yvonne said, as my brother-in- the operator asked yvonne for his um, i canhis . villa told yvonne to give the operator the address. the opebrother-in- k he just showed up and the operator asked whether he justi 3 pomona police officers jeffrey hayward and eric responded to the 911 call. officer hayward saw villa on the ground with a gunshot wound to his neck. officer hayward gave officer hayward told villa he could die from his injuries and asked him who shot him. villa answered-in-law. i after completing his investigation at the scene, officer hayward went to an apartment complex to look for gardea. officer hayward did not find gardea, however. officer a 12-gauge shotgun birdshot shell at the scene. in early june 2015, pomona police detective david estrada entered a wan. he also provided other officerpossible whereabouts 3 the 911 call was played for the jury. 5 and directed officers to try to find gardea at his home. the officers did not locate gardea, however. detective estrada did not try to secure a search warrant for apartment because he was uncertain that gardea lived there and thus did not have sufficient cause for a warrant. detective estrada did apartment or to a trailer park associated with gardea to look for him. on june 11, 2015, detective estrada showed villa a six-pack of photographs. villa was still in the hospital at the time. although photo was one of the six photos, villa did not identify gardea in the photos. on august 24, 2015, detective estrada arrested gardea. b. jail calls on august 27, 2015, gardea called an unidentified man from jail. the call was recorded and later played for the jury. during the call, gardea -to-eye to make sure that she keeps, i guess, if she has any power over her, her [unintelligible] from showing up, because if, if, if nothing like that goes down, then the unidentified man said that he gardea then said, [10] days or something, because then, then, then i should be more thani should the unidentified man asked gardea what he needed him to do. gardea respondedshe comes on saturday for me, that way i can tell her. the unidentified man said, ll let her know later, gardea t of 6 she should be listening to me, and then the bottom line is, is like i, like i started off anyhow, if, you know what i mean, if her cool, dog, but the subpoena issue right now, if nobody show on august 30, 2015, gardea called marissa from jail. the call was recorded and later played for the jury. during the call, gardea told marissawell, you need to try to fix that tomorrow if you can, if you want to come see me, because at the end of the day, if your fuckingwhatever is doing that prostitution and fucking wherevt, she cannot show up, because. okay, i drney told you, right?yes, exactly. okay, well, good, alright. well, we should leave it that. c. witness identifications yvonne testified that she saw gardea from the top of his chest to the top of his head and that gardea had a bald head as well as a mustache. yvonne testified that she immediately recognized gardea and that she recognized his voice when he said yvonne consistently identified gardea as the shooter and did not identify anyone else when speaking with police or during any of her previous testimony. yvonne told villa that she saw gardea shoot him. she also testified that gardea drove a suburban at the time of the shooting. 7 not see the person who shot villa. rather, he only saw a silhouette. villa testified he did not know who shot him and did not recall telling police officers that it was gardea who shot him. villa remembered telling a police officer that yvonne told him that it was junebug who shot him. he described the person -in-d on what yvonne told him. villa also testified that he did not want to come to court to testify and did not want to prosecute someone for shooting him. during the defense case, gardea introduced three portions of recorded interview with villa at the hospital. during the interview, villa was shown a six-photo array and detective estrada asked villa if anyone looked familiar. villa responded i want to 4 villa told detective estrada and his partner, . . just enough for me to see his went this way and tore all thisthis; it d partner told villa o in the hell he is, but . . . . there, just say it. i mean we know you but. . care for that. ng you. i t . . . 4 although this portion of the transcript does not indicate to whom villa was referring, villa did not identify gardea in this six-photo array. 8 discussion i. ineffective assistance of counsel claim gardea first contends that his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to cross-examine yvonne about her eyesight and her purported need for eyeglasses. we disagree. gardea has not shown that trial cross-examine yvonne about her eyesight. a. relevant proceedings before trial, gardea was represented by deputy public defender mary tennant (tennant). on august 12, 2016, tennant declared a conflict and the court appointed deputy alternate public defender anthony cavalluzzi (cavalluzzi), who represented gardea through trial. trial began on february 15, 2017. on may 22, 2017, the jury returned its guilty verdict. on december 12, 2017, gardea moved for a new trial, claiming that he had received ineffective assistance of counsel at trial. in relevant part, gardea claimed that defense counsel had failed to evidence which would have testimonyand that (gomez), could have testified . at the motion hearing, tennant testified that she had represented gardea through his preliminary hearing until she declared a conflict at a readiness hearing. during her representation, she had conversations about yvonne with family, including marissa. at some point after the preliminary hearing, marissa and another family 9 member told tennant that they had a prescription for yvonne which indicated she had poor eyesight. tennant remembered paper when they came to court. however, tennant did not investigate the issue further given that the piece of paper had been provided to her shortly before she declared a conflict. tennant said that if she had kept the piece of paper, she would have included it with the discovery she gave to the alternate public defender. george moreno (moreno) testified that he worked as an investigator 2016, in order to get background information on yvonne. gomez said that yvonne suffered from mental illness, had tried to commit suicide, and that she would lie for however, gomez did not say that yvonne had poor eyesight or that yvonne had been unable to get a drivecense due to her poor eyesight. cavalluzzi testified that case after the public dffice declared a conflict. he received a discovery file from tennant and went through every item in the file. cavalluzzi did not see an eyeglass prescription for yvonne in the file and never saw a prescription for yvonne during his representation. family members about an eyeglass prescription for yvonne. they told cavalluzzi that there cavalluzzi told them that he had gone through the file more than once. i could not find that prescription. and if we had a prescription, what we actually probably needon top of that [it] is likely [to] be hearsay cavalluzzi said that information about the doctor they had seen. i asked them for any pictures they had with her with glasses. 10 cavalluzzi also conducted his own investigation and obtained according to cavalluzzi, dmv records showed she had been issued a california and that her cdl number began with a b, thus indicating she did not need corrective lenses. investigator told cavalluzzi that a cdl number beginning with a it meant something different, the number would have started with an 5 cavalluzzi said that based on the cdl number 6 cavalluzzi did not 5 xperienced counsel may . . . choose to (people v. mcdermott (2002) 28 cal.4th 946, 992.) 6 as noted by gardea on appeal, cavalluzzi was incorrect. the document cavalluzzi believed contained information of yvonnhad been issued a california identification card. indeed, uthe documencontained a reference to ecause yvonne had not been issued a cdl, the number actually referred to her california identification card. cavalluzzi also concluded that because the number yvonne did not have a vision restriction. however, while other states, such as new yorindicate sight restrictions, california does not. in california, an hazardous materials in a tank. (see california commercial driver handbook at pp. 1-5 <https://www.dmv.ca.gov> [as of jan. 9, 2019].) in california, a driving restriction for corrective lenses is indicated with 11 have any independent evidence corroborating the claim of family that yvonne had vision problems.7 he explained that based on , during which she did not s uncomfortable with calling [gomez] and thought it would appear as though she was being dishonest to the jury and chose instead not to call her. i think there may have been other information in the interview that i w gomez said eyeglass prescription to marissa and that the document was yellow. gomez further testified that yvonne was legally blind and gomez had not seen yvonne wear glasses in the last 10 years. gomez spoke with trial ision problems. however, gomez did not tell the defense she saw the prescription. gomez said that she saw a prescription but did not know the name of the doctor or clinic that had issued it. gomez said she did not provide any of this information to attorney because he had the prescription. she knew subpoenaed her and told her he (see vision requirements for driving class c vehicles <https://www.dmv.ca.gov> [as of jan. 9, 2019].) 7 on appeal, gardea contends that the fact that yvonne was issued a california identification card rather than a cdl supportvonne was unable to obtain a cdl, or chose not to apply for one, because she lens requirement. 12 had seen the prescription but that gomez had a prior conversation with yvonne about obtaining a license and yvonne told her that she could not pass the test because she did not have prescription glasses to be able to read.8 the motion for a new trial, finding that cavalluzzi had not provided ineffective assistance of to the eyesight, i with that. the witness testifies that last 10 years. . . . [yvonne] testified . . . [and] had to get off the stand and walk to the back of the courtroom and vice versa. i think she did that a few times. and i had no inkling that she had any issue with vision problems. shown documents. them and identify folks from photographs. we heard about a prescription. how old that prescription was. been a viable avenue for [the] defense to pursue based on that mean, other than some people saying that [yvonne] has problems with her eyes and different prescriptions out there somewhere, . . . yvonne had known gardea for a number of years and had never wavered as to the identity of the assailant. furthermore, the court did not believe villa claim that he had identified gardea 8 ez were submitted with gal. 13 at the scene only because yvonne had already informed him that gardea was the shooter. . . [that] were reasonable cavalluzzi was ineffective in failing to pursue the area suggested [, this] would not have changed the outcome of the trial9 lastly, the court also made the following court finds that sufficient credible evidence was presented at trial to support b. relevant law the standard for establishing ineffective assistance of counsel is well-settled. a defendant must demonstrate that: (1) s performance fell below an objective standard of reasonableness; and (2) there is a reasonable probability that, but s unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been more favorable to the defendant. (strickland, 9 the trial court employed the incorrect standard when discussed below, in order to prevail on this issue, gardea needed against the standard of a reasonably competent attorney and that this deficient performance resulted in prejudice in the sense that process that the trial cannot be relied on as having produced a just strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 686 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674] (strickland).) in applying the findings and decision were correct. 14 supra, 466 u.s. at pp. 688, 694.) a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (id. at p. 694.) s reasonable tactical decisions in examining a claim of ineffective assistance of strong presumption that s conduct falls within the wide range of reasonable profess [citation.] cord great s tactical decisions [citation], and we have -guess reasonable, if [citation]. deemed reversible, s decisionmaking must be evaluated in the context of (people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 925-926.) gardea bears the burden of proving ineffective assistance of counsel. (see people v. mattson (1990) 50 cal.3d 826, 876-877.) to that end, a defendant also preponderance of the evidence that . . . resulted (people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 674.) rating prejudice, the [defendant] simply speculation as to the effect of the errors or omissions of [citation.] [citation.] (people v. loza (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 332, 350.) new trial based on an ineffective assistance claim, we apply the standard of review applicable to mixed questions of law and fact, supported by substantial evidence, but reviewing de novo the ultimate question of whether the facts demonstrate a violation of 15 (people v. cervantes (2017) 9 cal.app.5th 569, 590-591, disapproved on another ground in people v. superior court (lara) (2018) 4 cal.5th 299, 314-315; see people v. ogunmowo we accord by substantial evidence in the record, but exercise our independent judgment in deciding whether the facts demonstrate to credibility determinations and findings on questions of historical [citation.] (people v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263, 308; see people v. leyba (1981) 29 cal.3d 591, 596-witnesses, resolve any conflicts in the testimony, weigh the evidence and draw factual inferences, the exercise of that express or implied, must be upheld if they are supported by people v. hamlin (2009) 170 cal.app.4th it is an established principle that the credibility of witnesses and the weight to be given their testimony are matters within the sole c. merits we begin with the first element of this claim, deficient performance. to establish the first strickland prong, a defendant must show . . fell below an objective (people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009.) in evaluating strickland 16 reasonable tactical decisions, and there is a presumption counsel acted within the wide range of reasonable professional (mai, at p. 1009.) gardea contends that the sole defense in his case was misidentification of gardea as the shooter. on appeal, gardea concedes that cavalluzzi was justified in concluding gomez would not have made a credible witness and that there were tactical reasons for not calling gomez to testify allegedly poor vision. gardea also concedes that fication card, instead of a cdl, nor the claim that yvonne had an eyeglass prescription, conclusively proved that yvonne had poor eyesight at the time she observed the shooter. the same is true regarding the fact that yvonne regularly obtained car rides from other drivers. irrespective of the quality of her vision, without a cdl yvonne needed to obtain rides from other drivers. that gardea was one of the people who frequently gave yvonne rides only bolsters her identification of gardea as the shooter.10 10 gardea also maintains that yvonne initially misidentified another man as gardea at a field show-up after the shooting, which supports his claim that yvonne had poor vision. however, our reading of the record does not support this contention. on cross-examination, yvonne testified that she was -up. as they drove up to the house, yvonne thought the man she saw there although gardea claims boyfriendand thus a person with good eyesight should have been able to identify him easilywhen asked about this at trial, yvonne said that the man was not her former boyfriend and that 17 however, gardea does raise one potentially meritorious issue, contending that, at the very least, cavalluzzi should have cross-examined yvonne about her own vision. according to -examine yvonne about her vision cannot be excused as a strategic decision. to ask her if she had ever worn corrective lenses or been given a e answered affirmatively, it would have significantly undermined the if she answered in the negative, mr. cavalluzzi simply could have moved on according to the prosecution, however, the record demonstrates that cavalluzzi had reason not to challenge ht on cross-examination. if yvonne had denied having poor eyesight, cavalluzzi would have had no independent evidence that could have corroborated that yvonne had some sort of vision problem. although cavalluzzi had family for any additional evidence, such as the name of the docto prescription or even a photo of yvonne wearing glasses, they did not provide him with any such material. therefore, by the time yvonne testified at trial, the only information cavalluzzi had regeyesight was unsubstantiated hearsay.11 it was her sister barbara who had a prior relationship with 11 nor was cavalluzzi provided with any information of vision problem. thus, had yvonne testified she was near sighted rather than far sighted, which would have supported her identification given her relative 18 moreover, in order to show prejudice under strickland, a there is a reasonable probability that, errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 694.) the defendant must establish prejudice as a demonstrable reality, not simply speculation as to the . (see in re clark (1993) 5 cal.4th 750, 766.) in other words, calleged deficiencies cannot be evaluated based solely on unsubstantiated speculation. (people v. mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1018.) yvonne knew gardea well. indeed, she had known gardea would give yvonne rides in his car. immediately after the shooting, yvonne told the 911 operator that gardea had shot villa. yvonne subsequently testified that gardea shot villa, that she saw gardea from the top of his head to the top of his chest, and that she immediately recognized him and his voice. yvonne never identified anyone other than gardea as the shooter. at the scene, villa told police ] brother-in-who shot him. furthermore, while in jail awaiting trial, gardea made two phone calls urging marissa and an unidentified male to keep yvonne had vision problemsand that these problems were severe enough to preclude her from correctly identifying gardeais unsubstantiated speculation. thus, even if yvonne had testified proximity to the shooter, cavalluzzi would have been similarly unable to contradict this testimony. 19 she wore glasses or had issues with her vision, there is not a reasonable probability that the result of the proceeding would have been different. ii. motion for mistrial claim gardea claims the trial court abused its discretion when it statement made during cross-examination. we disagree. the because it cured any potential prejudice caused by the statement. a. relevant proceedings during direct examination, the prosecution asked yvonne what she saw gardea do after he shot villa. yvonne said that she saw gardea walk away from the house, but she did not see him get into a car. yvonne said gardea drove a or copper-colored suburban but that she did not see his suv on the day of the shooting.12 shortly after defense counsel began his cross-examination of yvonne, counsel moved to i ustknowin an suv. the trial court denied the motion. later during cross-examination, defense counsel asked do you recall talking to the officers on the evening of the incident about if you saw the suspect walk away or not? 12 on appeal, gardea contends that garscope of her identification to the few seconds before villa was shot ice when he called out 20 yvonne saidi recall talking to the officers. know where he went. that was it. counsel then asked, do you remember testifying at the preliminary hearing that you actually saw the perpetrator walk away, walk away to his car, truck, and leave? no. i seen him walk away to his truck. i seen him walk away. and that was it. cdo you remember being they asked me what kind of car he drives. i told the cops that. counsel followed up even when you were answering the questions at the preliminary hearing, what you were talking about is the car the defendant normally drives? yvonne confirmed this was correct. when cnot what you saw him driving that night? right. but somebody else saw it there. (italics added.) at this point, counsel lodged an objection without naming a specific ground. objection, , and instructed the jury to disregard the statement. the court also admonished yvonne to answer the questions but to wait until the next question was asked before answering again. during the p, defense counsel renewed his motion to suppress and also moved for a mistrial based on yv somebody else counsel argued: i feel like i have to renew the motion based on her testimony on cross-examination that what she communicated even at the preliminary hearing was based on what she heard. now, she also decided to throw in that someone else saw that, which occurred in front of the jury, which i think is 21 t gonna hear at the trial. i am gonna make a motion to, again, suppress that , clearly, based on what she heard from someone else, and she was very clear about it here . . . . i also feel a need based on that information coming in the way i [sic] did to make a motion for a mistrial. the jury has now heard be unrung. the prosecution respondedmotion to strike it. it was an offhanded comment, not in response to a question. and counsel dealt with it immediately and appropriately. an the trial court denied the motion for a mistrial, correctly notingthat i directed the jury to disregard, and then i admonished the b. relevant law provide the basis for a mistrial. (see people v. rhinehart (1973) 9 cal.3d 139, 152, disapproved on other grounds in people v. bolton (1979) 23 cal.3d 206, 213-214.) however, a trial court should grant a motion for mistrial only when a s chances of receiving a fair trial have been irreparably damaged. (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 282prejudice that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. (people v. haskett (1982) 30 cal.3d 841, 854.) particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable (ibid.) accordingly, we s ruling on a motion for mistrial for abuse of discretion. (see people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 128.) 22 ordinarily, a curative instruction to disregard improper testimony is sufficient to protect a defendant from the injury of such testimony, and, ordinarily, we presume a jury is capable of following such an (people v. navarrete (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 828, 834 (navarrete); see people v. mcnally (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 1419, 1428-1429 [juries often hear unsolicited and inadmissible comments and, absent evidence to the contrary, the error is deemed cured by judicial admonishment].) c. merits in short, gardea argues, so have led the jury to believe that another person beside yvonne could place gardea at the scene of the shooting, credibility. gardea repeatedly contends that yvonne purposefully blurted out this comment to make herself appear truthful.13 gardea further argues that the statement was so unduly prejudicial, it could not be cured by striking the statement and admonishing the jury. according to gardea, the gardea cites navarrete, supra, 181 cal.app.4th 828 in support of his claim. in navarrete, the defendant was charged with committing a lewd act on a four-year-old girl. (id. at p. 830.) the trs motion to suppress statements he had made to detectives before being advised of his miranda rights. (navarrete, at p. 831.) one of the detectives was 13 gardea offers no evidence to support this particular allegation and we therefore reject it. (see people v. berryman 23 (id. at p. 832.) when the detective took the stand to testify, he was asked why he had decided against testing swabs taken from the the detective answered: s a court rule that s statement is inadmissible. t state the (id. at p. 831.) the trial court struck the testimony and gave a curative instruction to the jury. (id. at pp. 831-832.) the defendant was convicted. on appeal, the appellate court held that the jury could have reasonably he did not have the swabs tested because fessed or otherwise incriminated himself, rendering dna evidence (navarrete, supra, 181 cal.app.4th at p. 834.) the court found significant the fact that the detective intentionally testified that the defendant had made a prior statement because he intended to prejudice the jury against the defendant.14 (id. at p. 836.) moreover, the court determined, ts misconduct (id. at pp. 836-837.) the court further found s curative instructions could not undo the damage inflicted by the 14 s ambiguous and inadvs out-of-court statement previously excluded by the court may not always require the (navarrete, supra, 181 cal.app.4th at p. 836.) in navarrete, s testimony was neits e, triggered seemingly by his apparent s wondering the previous day about the credibil (ibid.) 24 li the court thus reversed the judgment. (id. at p. 834.) navarrete is inapposite. navarrete trial court can almost always cure the prejudice of an improperly volunteered statement by granting a motion to strike and that, in this case, the reference to the inadmissible confession tioa curative instruction could not undo the prejudice. (navarrete, supra, 181 cal.app.4th at p. 836.) indeed, navarrete s belief that a defendant may have confessed eviscerates the presumption of (id. at p. 834.) case, however, does not confession being improperly introduced, nor any analogous circumstance. (see id. at p. 836.) furthermore, nothing in the record suggests that yvonne willfully violated a court order, acted in bad faith, or intended to prejudice the jury as did the detective in navarrete. a jury is presumed to have followed an admonition to disregard improper evidence, particularly where there is an absence of bad faith. (people v. allen (1978) 77 cal.app.3d 924, 934.) indeed, the trial motion was consistent with cases where courts properly denied mistrial motions based on volunteered testimony. (see, e.g., people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 428 [court properly denied motion for a mistrial after prosecution witness testified he had taken a polygraph because the testimony was brief and the court admonished the jurors to disregard the testimony].) objectionable 25 statement, the striking of her response, and the immediate admonition to the jury, we find that the trial court properly exercised its considerable discretion in denying the defense motion for mistrial. iii. closing argument claim gardea also contends that the trial court committed ight not to testify. we disagree. the prosecutor permissibly commented on the state of the evidence as well as failure to call logical witnesses. a. relevant proceedings during rebuttal argument, the prosecutor referenced law ilure to locate gardea until weeks after the shooting and argued: so the evidence regarding whether or not you to interpret. based on the evidence. and if you decide that the interpretation you adopt the one that says the police dvoteand that is in favor of not guilty. but before you make that and i want to make it very clear the defense has no burden in this case. none whatsoever. they can do exactly as they did. argue simply that i did not prove my case. however, the defense has the same subpoena power of the 26 live here at this . . . address with my children. mr. gardea is the father of my children, and the police never came here one time you could have heard that testimony. the trial court overruled the objection, stating that it [f]air comment the prosecutor then continued: you could have heard testimony from people who lived at that other trailer park. that other address. you could e from may 31st to . . . august defense counsel again objected to this argu the court overruled the objection and the prosecutor further argued: any of that. and, again, they have no burden. but they certainly can call logical witnesses and pre the prosecutor also argued that: the evidence that you heard was that mr. gardea told this guy on the phone that [yvonne] needs to not show up. he committed a crime. and, yeah, we probably could have charged him with it, but big picture consciousness of guilt. so. defense counsel objected and requested a sidebar. in chambers, the trial court said: i will just put something on the record to supplement my prior ruling, shifting the burden. and that rule of shifting the burden, you know, griffin error,[15] does 15 griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 [85 s.ct. 1229, 14 l.ed.2d 106] (griffin). 27 not extend to comments on the state of the evidence or on the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence or to call all logical witnesses. people [v.] medina [(1995)] 11 cal.4th 694. and the defense argued strenuously that there was no evidence that anyone went argument is that he fled and on the lam and so on and so forth. at least from this ct the defense could have brought somebody to buttress that and ng for him. he was, in facthe was watching tv every night. and no one ever came there, and he least from my perspective. b. relevant law to testify in his or her behalf (griffin, supra, 380 u.s. at p. 615), or suggest that a defendant has a burden to produce evidence or a duty to prove his or her innocence. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1195-1196). however, a prosecutor is allowed to comment on the state of the evidence or on the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence, or to call logical (people v. medina, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 755.) distinction clearly exists between the permissible comment that a defendant has not produced any evidence, and on the other hand an improper statement that a defendant has a duty or burden to produce evidence, or a duty or burden to prove his or her (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1340.) 28 c. merits in the first statement at issue, the prosecutor commented in rebuttal that the defense could have called marissa to say that the police never came to her house to look for gardea after the shooting. as noted above, a prosecutor is given wide latitude during argument and thus argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence. (see people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819.) nevertheless, gardea argues that this statement was not a fair comment on the evidence because [t]he court and the prosecutor knew of facts withheld from the jury that precluded [gardea] from calling marissa as a 16 we disagree. gardea was not precluded from calling marissa as a witness. although the trial court declined to take a domestic violence case involving marissa, this had no bearing on whether gardea could call marissa as a witness. furthermore, the 16 on april 13, 2015shortly before the may 31, 2015, shootinggardea was arrested for domestic violence against marissa. on april 27, 2015, and may 27, 2015, gardea was out of custody and voluntarily appeared in court in the domestic arraignment in the domestic violence case was set for june 18, 2015, but he failed to appear in court on that date. the court continued the arraignment until august 24, 2015, and gardea voluntarily appeared in court on that date. a detective then arrested gardea for the shooting as gardea walked out of the courtroom. at trial, the prosecutor sought to evasion of the police. however, the trial court did not consider a missed court date to be evidence of flight and denied the request. 29 argument. in closing, defense counsel argued that the prosecution did not provide any evidence that an officer went to gardea and thus could not prove gardea however, [a]rguments by [a] prosecutor that otherwise might be deemed improper do not constitute misconduct if they fall within the proper limits of rebuttal to the arguments of defense counsel. (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1026; see people v. hill (1967) 66 cal.2d 536, 562 [no misconduct can be charged where the remarks are responsive a indeed, marissa was the logical argument. the prosecutor also repeatedly emphasized that the burden of proof remained on the people. thus, the did not impermissibly shift the burden of proof to the defense and was not improper.17 (see people v. wash (1993) 6 cal.4th 215, 263; people v. hall (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 813, 817.) 17 the prosecutor also commented in rebuttal that the jury heard about gardea foll before seeking to prevent yvonne from appearing in court. the told anyone that these people should not show up. assuming that. the evidence that you heard was that mr. gardea told this guy on the phone that she needs ton appeal, gardea argues that this was not a fair comment on the evidence because calling his prior counsel as a witness would have waived the attorney-client privilege. however, defense counsel did not object to these particular comments and therefore any challenge to them on appeal is forfeited. (see people v. medina, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 756.) 30 in the next statement at issue, the prosecutor commented on s phone calls from jail, noting that so, you know, if she shows . (italics added.) defense counsel objected and requested a sidebar conference. the trial court prohibited the prosecutor from making any failure to claim innocence. the prosecutor co on appeal, gardea argues the prosecutor committed griffin error by noting that gardea did not declare his innocence in the jail calls because the only person who could do so was gardea, thereby implying that gardea should have testified in his own defense. in griffin, supra, 380 u.s. 609, the united states supreme court held that a prosecutor may not comment on a defens failure to testify in his or her own behalf. the holding of griffin upon the state of the evidence or upon the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence or to call anticipated witnesses. (people v. bradford, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 1339.) griffin error if he or she argues to the jury that certain testimony or evidence is uncontradicted, if such contradiction or denial could be provided only by the defendant, who therefore would be required to take the witness stand. (ibid.) in ascertaining whether griffin error occurred, we must determine if there is a reasonable likelihood jurors could s allegedly improper commentwhen viewed in the context of the argument as a wholes failure to testify. (see people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1203.) here, the prosecutor simply noted in passing that gardea did not say on the recorded jail calls the 31 prosecutor did not h failure to testify. rather, this was a proper comment on the state of the evidence presented at trial. (see people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 633.) even assumimproper, the error was harmless. (see people v. northern (1967) evidence which, incidentally, has not been refuted by the [d]efendant, there is no controverting evidence from the other side was harmless error even though it was repeated several times].) here, the comment was brief, unrepeated, and did not suggest that gardea was guilty because he did not testify. indirect and brief failure to testify, without any suggestion that an inference of guilt be drawn from that failure, uniformly have been held to constitute harmless error. (see people v. bradford, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 1340.) moreover, the trial court instructed the jury not to consider the fact that gardea did not testify or to let the exercise of the right not to testify influence its decision in any way. we presume the jury followed the trial rather than relying on brief comments by counsel. (people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, e jury relied on the instructions, not the arguments, in convicting [the] 32 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. bendix, j. 