filed 5/10/19 p. v. booker ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. donald earl booker, defendant and appellant. b286842 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga099455) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael villalobos, judge. conditionally reversed in part and remanded with directions. roberta simon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction a jury convicted defendant and appellant donald earl booker of assault with a deadly weapon (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1))1, attempted murder ( 664/187, subd. (a)), and mayhem ( 203). as to each offense, the jury found true the allegation that defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury. ( 12022.7, subd. (a).) the trial court sentenced defendant to 45 years to life in state prison. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred in excluding impeachment evidence; in failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted voluntary manslaughter, that his extrajudicial statement threatening to kill his victim should be viewed with caution, and that a box cutter is an inherently dangerous weapon; in denying a mistrial; and in denying his request for a competency hearing, the judgment must be conditionally reversed and remanded for the trial court to conduct a diversion eligibility hearing pursuant to section 1001.36; the matter must be remanded so the trial court can exercise its discretion about whether to strike two sentencing enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a); and the cumulative prejudicial effect of the s requires reversal. we conditionally reverse assault with a deadly weapon, attempted murder, and mayhem convictions and remand for a hearing to determine his eligibility for a mental health diversion program pursuant to section 1001.36. 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 ii. background dale ross had known and been friends with defendant and treopia ross for about 20 years.2 he testified that at around 9:00 a.m. on august 11, 2016, he and treopia drank beer and smoked crystal methamphetamine at his house. after smoking methamphetamine for about an hour, dale and treopia went to the sparr liquor store. defendant was at the parking lot. defendant and treopia spoke. dale was close by. he did not remember hearing defendant tell treopia that he was going to kill her. at some point, dale saw defendant take a swing at treopia. defendant and treopia struggled for about 20 or 30 seconds. they were swinging at each othertreopia threw punches. during the altercation, dale did not see either defendant or treopia in possession of a box cutter. he had previously seen treopia with knives he saw her with a knife earlier that day. at about 8:46 a.m. on august 11, 2016, deciderio flores was driving on huntington drive in duarte. he saw defendant chasing treopia. when defendant got close to treopia he would he did not see treopia swing at defendant. it appeared that defendant had something that looked like a knife in his hand. treopia screamed for help. flores believed that treopia was going to be hurt and called the police. 2 because dale ross and treopia ross share a last name, we will refer to them by their first names for clarity. 4 flores testified that treopia and defendant ran into a liquor store. at some point, defendant came out and walked across the street. treopia testified that she had been convicted of misdemeanor assault with a deadly weapon in 2006 and felony forgery in february 2007. she had felony charges pending for allegedly striking and pepper spraying her 70-year-old father. at about 8:40 a.m. on august 11, 2016, treopia was at the sparr liquor store in duarte. defendant was in the parking lot when she arrived. treopia called dale, who she knew was at the carl jr. at some point, treopia approached dale because she wanted to go to his house to dye her hairshe was homeless at the time. as treopia and and motioned to dale to come over. dale went to defendant to see what he wanted. treopia went into the liquor store and spoke to a store employee for 10 or 15 minutes. treopia treopia and so approached her. defendant remained behind. defendadale walked back and forth between treopia and defendant. at some point, defendant walked with dale to treopia. defendant was she asked why are you maddogging me, looking me up and down like that? defendant said, in a normal tone of voice defendant then swung at treopia and she put her hand up so he would not hit her in the face. treopia had not threatened defendant or swung at him. 5 , with a box cutter, made contact with the palm of right hand and cut her. defendant then tried to defend herself, treopia in a fighting position. defendant then cut left hand, cutting her to the bone. treopia ran into the street and screamed for help and for someone to call the police. defendant pursued and tried to catch her. treopia ran inside the sparr liquor store. defendant followed her. treopia asked the liquor store employee to call the police. treopia was taken to the hospital where she had surgery on her hands that lasted five or six hours. she had casts on her hands for two weeks and could not use them. treopia was in a lot of pain when she left the hospital. she suffered lasting impairment to one of her hands that prevented her from continuing her employment braiding hair. deputy sheriff brendon jackson responded to the sparr liquor store. there, he spoke with dale. dale said he was standing with treopia in a dirt lot when defendant approached. defendant responded, shut up iii. discussion a. the tri defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion when it did not permit him to cross-examine treopia about the claimed lasting impairment to one of her hands by 6 asking if she punched her father in the months after defendant cut her. the trial court also erred, he contends, when it prevented him from cross-examining dr. hu, the surgeon who , and treopia about whether treopia had methamphetamine in her system on the day of the incident. the evidence was relevant, defendant contends, to impeach treopia and to show that events in the parking lot did not occur the exclusion of the evidence was prejudicial, defendant argues, sented as to why this fight what started the fight. it could have been that treopia ross started the fight and [defendant] was defending himself. treopia ross had charges filed against her. it could have been that she was trying to get on the good side of law enforcement, and what she was saying was not true. she could have been embellishing. treopia ross was the only person from whom any evidence of whether [defendant] had the intent to kill came from. had defense counsel been able to impeach her as he requested, the jury could well have found the events in the parking lot occurred only relevant evidence is admissible. (evid. code,  350.) relevant evidence means evidence, including evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness . . . having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.y, a jury may consider any matter that has any tendency in reason to prove or disprove the truthfulness of his testimony 7 for an abuse of discretion. (people v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 131.) the erroneous exclusion of evidence is governed by the standard of prejudice set forth in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson). (people v. mcalpin (1991) 53 cal.3d 1289, 1311.) under that standard, the erroneous exclusion of evidence is harmless unless it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the defendant would have been reached had the evidence been admitted. (watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) suffered lasting impairment to one of her hands, defense counsel requested that the trial court allow him to ask treopia whether she was still able to strike people with her fist, specifically, if she was able to strike her father five months after defendant attacked her. defense counsel argued the evidence would impeach treopia and would show a propensity for violence. the trial court ruled that defense counsel could ask treopia whether she could make a fist or maneuver her hand, but not if she was able to punch someone. defense counsel also sought to introduce and ask dr. hu a history of drug and alcohol abuse and that treopia tested positive for methamphetamine on the day of the attack. he further requested to cross-examine treopia about her substance abuse that day. use, defense counsel argued, would impeach testimony that she did not use methamphetamine that day. the trial court excluded the evidence as irrelevant and immaterial. it further found that the evidence was highly prejudicial and that its 8 presentation would be unduly time consuming under evidence code section 352. even assuming the trial court erred in excluding the evidence, any such error was harmless. credibility was independently impeached with evidence of her prior misdemeanor assault with a deadly weapon and felony forgery convictions. second, dale testified that on the morning prior to the attack, he and treopia smoked methamphetamine for testimony about her drug use. third, the version of the incident at the sparr liquor store parking lot that the jury heard from treopia was largely corroborated. she testified that defendant and said he was going to kill her. defendant then swung at her twice, slashing both of her hands with a box cutter, and attempted to slit her throat. she testified that she did not swing at defendant. dale testified he saw defendant and treopia swing at each other. deputy jackson testified that dale told him that defendant called treopia flores testified he saw defendant chase treopia and swing at her. he further testified that defendant appeared to have something in his hand that looked like a knife. flores did not see treopia swing at defendant. given such evidence, it is not reasonably probable that a result more favorable to defendant would have been reached had evidence been admitted. (watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) 9 b. instructions on the lesser included offense of attempted voluntary manslaughter defendant contends that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted voluntary manslaughter based on the theories of imperfect self-defense and heat of passion. because substantial evidence supported neither theory, the trial court did not err. 1. standard of review attempted voluntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of attempted murder. (people v. prunty (2015) 62 cal.4th 59, 69.) a trial court must instruct, sua sponte, on all theories of a lesser included offense that are supported by substantial evidence, but not those without such evidentiary support. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 162.) he existence of any evidence, no matter how weak will not justify instructions on a lesser included offense, but such instructions are required whenever evidence that the defendant is guilty only of the lesser offense is substantial enough to merit consideration by the jury. [citations.] substantial evidence in this context is evidence from which a jury composed of reasonable [persons] could . . . conclude[committed. (ibid.) 10 2. analysis a. imperfect self-defense under the doctrine of imperfect self-defense, when the trier of fact finds that a defendant killed another person because the defendant actually, but unreasonably, believed he was in imminent danger of death or great bodily injury, the defendant is deemed to have acted without malice and thus can be convicted of no crime greater than voluntary manslaughter. [citation.] as [the supreme court] explained in people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 200-201 . . . imperfect self-defense is not an affirmative defense, but a description of one type of voluntary manslaughter. thus the trial court must instruct on this doctrine, whether or not instructions are requested by counsel, whenever there is evidence substantial enough to merit consideration by the jury that under this doctrine the defendant is guilty of voluntary manslaughter. people v. michaels (2002) 28 cal.4th 486, 529.) defendant contends that the trial court should have given an imperfect self-defense instruction because dale testified that he saw treopia fighting with defendant, everyone in the area carried a knife, and defense counsel raised a lot of questions that evidence, defendant in unreasonable belief that he was in imminent danger of death or great bodily we disagree. no evidence was adduced that treopia was armed with a knife during her struggle with defendant, that defendant believed treopia was armed with a knife, or that 11 defendant actually believed that an armed treopia posed an imminent danger of death or great bodily injury. b. heat of passion heat of passion arises when the victim has engaged in at the time of the killing, the reason of the accused was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and reflection, and from such passion rather than from judgment. [citation.] (people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 59.) heat of passion voluntary manslaughter has an objective elementdid the victim engage in conduct that would provoke a reasonable person to kill, and a subjective elementwas the defendant actually acting under the influence of a strong passion when he killed. (people v. wickersham (1982) 32 cal.3d 307, 327 disapproved on another ground by people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 201.) there was no evidence that treopia did or said anything sufficiently provocative to cause an average person to react with deadly passion. (people v. wickersham, supra, 32 cal.3d at p. 327.) also, there was no evidence that defendant acted under the influence of such a passion. (ibid.) defendant admits as [w]the parking lot athe fight occurredaccordingly, the trial court did not err when it did not give a heat of passion voluntary manslaughter instruction. 12 defendant argues that the objective element of heat of passion was satisfieaverage disposition to act rashly, or without due deliberation and subjective element was satisfied because treopia while under the actual influence of a strong passion induced speculative argument and failure to cite any supporting evidence is dispositive. (people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 162 [a trial court has no sua sponte duty to instruct on a lesser included offense not supported by evidence].) c. antecedent threats instruction defendant contends that the trial court erred by omitting from calcrim no. 34703 (right to self-defense or defense of 3 the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 3470 as follows: [-]defense is a defense to assault with a deadly weapon, attempted murder and mayhem. the defendant is not guilty of those crimes if he used force against the other person in lawful self[-]defense. the defendant acted in lawful self[-]defense if, one, the defendant reasonably believed that he was in [im]minent danger of suffering bodily injury or was in imminent danger of being touched unlawfully. he defendant reasonably believed that the immediate use of force was necessary to defend against that danger, and, three, the defendant used no more force than was reasonably necessary to defend against that danger. 13 another (non-homicide)) two optional or bracketed paragraphs4 that he contends would have allowed the jury to consider n future harm is not sufficient no matter how great or how likely the harm is believed to be. the defendant must have believed there was imminent danger of bodily injury to himself or imminent danger that he would be touched unlawfully. the dhave acted because of that belief. the defendant is only entitled to use that amount of force that a reasonable person would believe is necessary in the same situation. if the defendant used more force than was reasonable, the defendant did not act in lawful self-defense. s were reasonable, consider all the circumstances as they were known to and appeared to the defendant and consider what a reasonable person in a similar situation with similar knowledge would have danger does not need to have actually existed. entitled to stand his or her ground and defend him or herself and if reasonably necessary to pursue an assailant until the danger of bodily injury has passed. this is so even if safety could have been achieved by retreating. reasonable doubt that the defendant did not act in lawful self[-]defense. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the defendant not guilty of assault with a deadly weapon, attempted murder 4 calcrim no. 3470 has five optional paragraphs that may be given depending on the facts in a case. defendant does not specify which two paragraphs were erroneously omitted. it appears, however, that he is referring to the following two paragraphs: 14 evidence that treopia previously harmed someone in deciding whether defendant had a reasonable belief in the need to defend himself, even if he did not know about the prior assault. the trial court did not err. we apply the de novo standard of review when assessing whether jury instructions correctly state the law. (people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 218.) a trial court is required to instruct [s] the people v. watson (2000) 22 cal.4th 220, 222.) during a discussion of jury instructions, the trial court stated it was going to instruct with calcrim no. 3470, but that it would omit violence that might have been known to defendant because it had not permitted the introduction of such evidence. defense counsel stated his continuing disagr evidentiary ruling, adding that the requested optional paragraphthe defendant or others in the past, you may consider that information in deciding whether the defendants conduct and prior assaultive behavior regardless of whether defendant was aware of it. harmed the defendant [or others] in the past, you may consider duct and beliefs were reasonable.] victim> had threatened or harmed others in the past, you may (calcrim no. 3470.) 15 the prosecutor stated his belief that the important part of s conduct and beliefs were reasonable, that is, ; and there had been no evidence defendant knew about any prior bad acts. proof, there was no evidence that treopia had threatened or harmed defendant in the past. defense counsel responded that he was not relying on the part of the paragraph that concerned prior threats or harm to defendant. the trial court stated it s request concerned prior threats or e paragraph was appropriate even if defendant did not know of any such threats or harm. it ruled that it did not have to decide whether the paragraph required defendant to have knowledge of prior threats or harm to others because there had been no evidence treopia had threatened or harmed others in the past. defense counsel noted the jury had heard that treopia had been convicted of assault with a deadly weapon. the trial court responded that such evidence had been admitted for impeachment and the jury had not heard about the conduct underlying the conviction. defense counsel stated the reason the jury had not heard about the underlying conduct was because the trial court had precluded its admission. the trial court agreed, . defendant argues the trial court should have given the first optional paragraphor harmed the defendant or others in the past, you may consider because there was sufficient evidence 16 of antecedent threats to another. the jury had heard that treopia had been convicted of misdemeanor assault with a deadly weapon in 2006.5 optional paragraph. the purpose of that paragraph is to guide the jury in evaluating evidence that might bear on the reason in support of self-defense determination and thus requires for its justification substantial evidence that a defendant knew of the . (people v. bates (may 7, 2019, c086471) ___ cal.app.5th ___ [2019 cal.app. lexis 416, *13-15].) there was no evidence adduced at trial that deadly weapon conviction. defendant argues the trial court should have given the second optional paragraphthat [treopia ross] had threatened or harmed others in the past, you may consider that information in deciding whether the because conceivable that he knew of her assaultive behavior.there are request that the trial court give this optional paragraph and thus has forfeited this issue on appeal. (people v. andrews (1989) 49 5 based on a pretrial discussion of evidence offered for impeachment, defendant asserts that treopia also had a 1993 conviction for misdemeanor assault with a deadly weapon. because the trial court ruled evidence of that conviction inadmissible and the jury never learned of it, that conviction could not serve as the basis for the requested paragraph. 17 cal.3d 200, 218 [that an instruction correct in law and responsive to the evidence was too general or incomplete unless the party has requested appropriate cl].) second, as with the first optional paragraph, there was no evidence adduced at trial supporting the instruction. (see people v. bates, supra, ___ cal.app.5th ___ [2019 cal.app. lexis 416, *13-15].) that is, there was misdemeanor assault with a deadly weapon conviction. the speculative proposition that defendant conceivably could have known of the prior conviction because he and treopia grew up in the same city falls far short of substantial evidence justifying the paragraph. d. calcrim no. 358 defendant asserts that the trial court erred in denying his request that it add to calcrim no. 3586 the advisement that the jury was to consider with caution any extrajudicial statement he made that tended to show his guilt unless the statement was written or otherwise recorded. the trial court should have 6 the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 358 that the defendant made a[n] oral or written statement before the trial. you must decide whether the defendant made any such statement, in whole or in part. [] if you decide that the defendant made such a statement, consider the statement along with all the other evidence in reaching your verdict. it is up to you to decide how much importance 18 when the trial court discussed jury instructions with the parties s to 358, the court has agreed to give that instruction on the defense request. there was a statement made by the defendant; not to the police, but to the victim, which he indicated he wanted to kill her.that defendant also was requesting that it add to calcrim no. 358 the additional advisement that the jury was to onsider with caution any statement made by defendant tending to show his guilt unless the statement was written or defense counsel responded that he was requesting the additional the police are testifying to a statement of the defendant; however, any extrajudicial oral statement by the defendant that is used by (people v. diaz (2015) 60 cal.4th 1176, 1187.) refusal to give such a cautionary instruction is reviewed for prejudice under watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at pages 835-836, that is, whether it is reasonably probable the jury would have reached a result more favorable to the defendant if the trial court had given the instruction. (people v. diaz, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. since the cautionary instruction is intended to help the jury to determine whether the statement attributed to the defendant was in fact made, courts examining the prejudice in 19 failing to give the instruction examine the record to see if there was any conflict in the evidence about the exact words used, their meaning, or whether the [statements] were repeated accurately.[citation.] (ibid.) here, t statement to show his state of mind and thus prove his guilt of attempted murder. with respect to the specific intent to kill although we have that in this statement to be a reference to said to her, ,and deputy defendant statement to treopia as shut up, bitc. because the prosecution used instruction. (people v. diaz, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 1187.) error in denying the requested instruction, however, said, , was corroborated by near identical statement to deputy jackson that defendant said, shut uppeople v. diaz, supra, 60 minor variations in the exact wordings of . . . statements are not the sort of inconsistencies that would cause a jury to question whether the statements were actually made, even when the testimony is viewed with caution.) also, there was no evidence contradicting trthat the statement was made. (ibid. citing people v. dickey (2005) 35 cal.4th 884, 906 [w]here there was no such conflict in the evidence, but simply a denial by the 20 defendant that he made the statements attributed to him, we have found failure to give the cautionary instruction harmless.) e. assault with a deadly weapon instruction defendant contends his conviction for assault with a deadly weapon must be reversed because jury to find a box cutter to be an inherently deadly weapon. we agree that the trial court erroneously instructed the jury, but hold the error was harmless. the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 875 a [a] deadly weapon other than a firearm is any object, instrument, or weapon that is inherently deadly or one that is used in such a way that it is capable of causing and likely to cause death or great bodily that is, the jury could have found defendant guilty of assault with a deadly weapon either because it found the box deadly because it found that he used the box cutter as the attorney general concedes, a box cutter in not an people v. mccoy (1944) 25 cal.2d 177, 188 (mccoy) [while a knife is not an inherently dangerous or deadly instrument as a matter of law, it may assume such characteristics, depending upon the manner in which it was used, and there arises a mixed question of law and fact which the jury must determine under proper instructions from the trial court. [citations.] pertinent in this connection is the case of people v. raleigh [(1932)] 128 cal.app. 105, 108-110 21 . . . , where the court pointed out the distinction between instrumentalities which are weapons in the strict sense of the word, such as guns, dirks, etc., and those instrumentalities which are not weapons in that sense, such as ordinary razors, pocket-knives or other sharp objects]; people v. aledamat (2018) 20 cal.app.5th 1149, 1153 (review granted in s248105 (july 5, 2018))7 because it is designed to cut things and not people thus, it was error to instruct the jury that it could find defendant guilty of assault with a deadly weapon if it found the box cutter to be an inherently deadly object, instrument, or weapon. having held that the trial court erroneously instructed the jury, we must determine whether the error was prejudicial. courts of appeal differ on the correct standard for evaluating prejudice. (compare people v. stutelberg (2018) 29 cal.app.5th 314, 319-321 [applying the beyond a reasonable doubt standard] with people v. aledamat, supra, 20 cal.app.5th at pp. 1153-1154 [requiring a showing that the jury actually relied on the valid under either standard. although the jury was instructed on both a correct and an incorrect legal theory, there is no doubt that it actually relied on the valid theory that defendant used the box cutter in such a way that it was capable of causing and likely to cause death or great 7 ordered by the supreme court . . . , a published opinion of a court of appeal in the matter has no binding or precedential 22 bodily injury. in his closing and rebuttal arguments, the prosecutor never mentioned the incorrect legal theorythat the jury could find a box cutter to be inherently deadly. instead, he focused on the manner in which defendant used the box cutter, the correct legal theory. likewise, dargument did not address the incorrect legal theory. there was no evidence that defendant used anything other sentencing finding that defendant inflicted great bodily injury, the jury necessarily found, beyond a reasonable doubt, that defendant used the box cutter in such a way that it was capable of causing and likely to cause death or great bodily injury. similarly, because there was no argument or evidence that a box cutter is inherently deadly and the jury found that defendant actually caused great bodily injury, it is inconceivable that the jury did not rely on the valid legal theory. f. defendant contends the trial court erred in denying his mistrial motion. we disagree. 1. background during his cross-examination of treopia, defense counsel asked about her relationship with defendant. treopia testified she had previously seen defendant and knew him well enough to greet him. defense counsel asked if she ktook. 23 -banging name or -banging -, l the trial court then advised the jury that the trial would recess for the evening and instructed them, as to the testimony regarding gang-banging, i ask you to please disregard that answer completely. do not let that information enter into your gang testimony, stating he was in a difficult position. he acknowledged that the trial court immediately admonished the could request another admonition from the trial court and suggested the prosecutor might stipulate that there was no evidence that defendant was an active gang member. of like an off-the-the testimony enter into its evaluation of the evidence or deliberations. the trial court believed the jury, with proper instructions, would disregard the gang testimony and follow the evidence. the 24 prosecutor stated he did not intend to ask treopia about for a mistrial. the trial court denied the motion. 2. analysis a mistrial should be granted if the court is apprised of prejudice that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. [citation.](people v. haskett (1982) 30 cal.3d 841, 854; people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 555 mistrial only when a partys chances of receiving a fair trial have been irreparably damaged, and we use the deferential abuse of discretion standard to review a trial court ruling denying a mistrial whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in ruling on mistrial motions.people v. haskett, supra, 30 cal.3d at p. 854.) and in order for trials to proceed without constant mistrial, it is axiomatic the prejudicial effect of these comments may be corrected by judicial admonishment; absent evidence to the contrary the error is deemed cured. (people v. mcnally (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 1419, 1428-1429.) is of such a character that its effect . . . cannot be removed by the court (id. at p. 1429.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying treopia s purported gang affiliation status was brief, defense counsel elicited testimony that she had no personal knowledge 25 of defenda, no other witness referred to the trial court admonished the jury to disregard and not consider the testimony in its deliberations, and tion did not cure the error. g. a competency hearing after the jury found defendant guilty of the three charged offenses and the trial court found true the prior conviction s competence. defendant contends there was substantial evidence of his incompetence before the trial court and thus the trial court erred in failing to hold a competency hearing. clause of the fourteenth amendment to the united states constitution [citation] and article i, section 15 of the california constitution. those protections are implemented by statute in california. a criminal defendant is incompetent and may not be result of mental disorder or developmental disability, the defendant is unable to understand the nature of the criminal proceedings or to assist ( 1367, subd. (a).) section 1368 mandates a competency hearing trial. that may occur if counsel informs the court that he or she during the pendency of an action and prior to judgment, a doubt arises in the mind of the judge as to the mental competence of the 26 people v. hayes (1999) 21 cal.4th 1211, 1281.) hearing based merely upon client may be incompetent. [citation.]people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 738court itself has dedoes not, in the absence of substantial evidence to that effect, require the court to h(people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1033.) doubt about the defendantpeople v. hayes, supra, 21 cal.4th at p. 1281.) to raise a doubt under the substantial evidence test, we require more than mere bizarre actions or statements, or even expert testimony that a defendant is psychopathic, homicidal, or a danger to him- or herself and others. [citations.] rather, the focus of the competence inquiry is on a defendants understanding of the criminal proceedings against him or her and the ability to consult with counsel or otherwise assist in his or her defense. [citation.] defendants trial demeanor is relevant to, but not dispositive of, the question whether the trial court should have suspended proceedings under section 1368.people v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 202.) after the jury returned the guilty verdicts, the trial court inquired whether defendant was going to waive a jury trial on the prior conviction allegations. it first asked defendant if he understood his right to a jury trial. d 27 the trial court asked again if defendant understood his right to a the trial court then explained to defendant that the prior conviction allegations could result in a minimum term of 35 years to life. claiming the jury had been tampered with, defendant stated that he did not want to remain in the courtroom and left, accompanied by deputy sheriffs. when defendant returned to the courtroom, he asked to address the trial court. the trial court advised defendant to confer with defense counsel first. defendant responded, im through with all of this because its over with. i can represent myself. i just want to speak to you because i came in front of you once before, and you remember they were trying to do the same thing to me. you sent me to patton state hospital, and they dismissed the case. [] its like, he dont have no evidence. he took the videotape from surveillance camera. he been doing all the blood, all the pictures and everything. he took all of that out, and then he going to sit up here again, go tamper with the jury. [] all of this has been preplanned, premeditated. the trial court stated that all it wanted to know was whether defendant was waiving his right to a jury trial on the the trial court ordered defendant to appear the next day so it could excuse the jury. defendant stated that he would not be returning. the trial court asked defendant if he could excuse the 28 the trial court then tried to schedule the trial on the prior conviction allegations and sentencing. it asked defendant if he agreed to a continuance to a particular date. defendant on the date set for the court trial on the prior conviction allegations, defendant informed the trial court that, [defense marsden8 motion for appointment of new counsel. the trial court denied the motion. when the proceedings resumed, defendant again said that defense counsel was not his attorney. apparently referring to a prosecutor (prosecutor no. 2), not supposed to be in this courtroom. [prosecutor no. 1], the one with the gray s not supposed to be here, thats why he got that smirk on his face. i bet you get away with the trial court told defendant that he needed to calm down. defendant responded, -fucker here falsely accused me. he had me set up. he followed me for four years and had that broad allowing me. then he took the video out the store with the surveillance camera where she was inflicting wounds. and then you all hid that shit and covered it up. and im supposed to be happy about it[?] you talking 8 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 29 the trial court informed defendant that if he could not be quiet, he would be removed from the courtroom. defendant said the trial court wanted him present the day before. the trial court but you dont like it, do you?could not be quiet, he would be removed and sentencing would take place without him. just after the trial on the prior conviction allegations began, the bailiff informed the trial court that defendant wanted to leave. the trial court asked defendant if he wanted to leave. defendant said that he did. the trial court asked defendant whether he wanted to be present for sentencing and if he understood that if he left, it would proceed with sentencing. defendant did not respond and was escorted from the courtroom. sit through this shit. i aint even supposed to be in this courtroom. after a recess during the trial on the prior conviction allegations, the trial court and defendant had the following discussion: mr. booker, i brought you back out because we are still in the middle of the court trial on the priors, and then we still have sentencing to do. : that dude right there, [prosecutor no. 2], hes not the district attorney that was assigned to this case. okay. it was [prosecutor no. 1.9] hes not supposed to be in this courtroom. let me ask you one question. 9 prosecutor no. 2 later explained that he had taken over prosecutor ncases. 30 no, i told you earlier, no. what part of that you dont understand, no. do you want to be here? i told you earlier when i walked out, i dont want to have nothing. [defense counsel] is not my attorney. i already been told what to do. court: all right. so did you want to not be here for the rest of the court trial and sentence? all this is a lie. you taking me to trial in municipal court. this is misdemeanor court. you bond me over to the superior court, which is pasadena. all right. you all trying to cover up and hide the truth. hes not supposed to be here. i will take that as a no, you do not want to be here. i dont. i told you. [defense counsel], do you wish to offer anything? [defense counsel]: no, your honor. all right. all right. do you want to go on the bus? do you want to just completely absent yourself from these proceedings? man, what did i tell you. either you dont hear good or listen good. is that yes? you threatened me yesterday if i dont come to court youre going to extract me. you have that sorry piece of shit, [defense counsel] over there. 31 ourt: the deputies want to know if you want to go on the bus. i told you earlier. do you want to [get] on the bus. you all can spare me this dramatic bullshit. okay. you will hear it again. so dont try to get cute with me. take me to trial in municipal court. of the courtroom. he does not . . . want to participate in these proceedings. so we will at the conclusion of the trial, the trial court found true the prior conviction allegations. defense counsel then made a new trial motion. the trial court denied the motion. defense counsel n light of mr. bookers behavior today, his comments at the hearing, im wondering if he is now competent, even though he might have been competent at an earlier time during the proceedings, his behavior would seem to suggest that the trial court denied the motion, expwell, if youre raising a doubt as to his competency based on simply his actions here in court today, i think i would deny that. it didnt seem to mewhile i agree that he has mental health issues, it didnt seem to me that he wasnt fully aware as to what was occurring. he knew that youre his lawyer. he knew i was the judge. he knew who the district attorney was. although, he believes [prosecutor no. 2] is the wrong guy whos supposed to be here today, but other than that, i think obviously he knew that he was here for sentencing. 32 he knew that we werehe was going to be sentenced on this case. and so i think its just a matter that he is upset. and, you know, obviously displayed words that indicated that he harbors, you know, certain beliefs about the system or us and so forth. and he was very upset, but i do not believe at this point it is an indication that he is not competent to proceed to sentencing. and besides, he also absented himself willfully. and i think that does not necessarily mean that he was incompetent. it just means that he was upset and angry at me or the court and so forth and does not statements before and during the trial on the prior conviction allegations were not evidence that raised a reasonable doubt about his competence to stand trial on those allegations. (people v. hayes, supra, 21 cal.4th at p. 1281.) his statements may have demonstrated frustration with his convictions on the substantive offenses and dissatisfaction with , but they did not demonstrate that he did not understand the criminal proceedings against him or that he was unable to consult with defense counsel or assist in his defense on the prior conviction allegations. (people v. mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 202.) although defendant may have statements, he also expressly told the trial court that he understood he had a right to a jury trial on the prior conviction allegations, he was waiving his right to a jury trial, and he knew [sic] years to lif as a consequence of the trial on the prior conviction allegations. these statements demonstrated he understood the nature of the proceedings against him. also, although defendant may have objected to dperformance and continuing representation, 33 nothing in statements demonstrated that he was unable to consult with defense counsel or assist in his defense. accordingly, the trial court did not err in denying defendant a competency hearing. h. pretrial diversion hearing defendant contends that he is entitled to a pretrial hearing on diversion under recently enacted section 1001.36 because the legislature intended the statute to apply retroactively. the attorney general counters that the language of subdivision (c) of section 1001.36 demonstrates that the legislature intended the enactment to operate prospectively, i.e., the enactment would not apply to cases such as this one in which there has already been an adjudication. our supreme court has granted review to decide whether section 1001.36 applies retroactively. (people v. frahs (2018) 27 cal.app.5th 784, review granted in s252220 (dec. 27, 2018) (frahs).10) because our supreme court will soon have the final word, we will keep our discussion brief. we agree with the outcome in frahs, and as in frahsfinal on appeal and the record affirmatively discloses that he old eligibility requirements. we will therefore remand to allow the trial court to determine whether defendant should benefit from diversion under section 1001.36. (frahs, supra, 27 cal.app.5th at p. 791.) 10 see footnote 7 above. 34 i. senate bill no. 1393 senate bill no. 1393, which became effective on january 1, 2019, amended sections 667 and 1385 to give the trial court discretion to strike five-year sentence enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a) in furtherance of justice.11 defendant contends that in light of senate bill no. 1393 we should remand this matter to the trial court to allow it to decide whether to strike one or both of his section 667, subdivision (a) enhancements. the attorney general argues we should not remand e[d]dismissed the enhancements even if it had the discretion when it sentenced defendant. this argument is based on romero12 motion, which was based on the criminal history and its with sentencing on the . . . assumption it lacked discretion, remand is necessary so that the trial court may have the opportunity to exercise its sentencing discretion at a new sentencing hearing. [citations.] defendants are entitled to of its discretionary authority cannot exercise its informed (people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 11 the attorney general concedes its retroactive application in this case. 12 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 35 cal.app.5th 420, 425 [remand in light of senate bill no. 620 which gave courts the discretion to dismiss or strike firearm enhancements].) a remand is not required, however, when record shows that the trial court clearly indicated when it originally sentenced the defendant that it would not in any event (ibid.) we disagree with the attorney general that the trial romero motion [d]impact of those sentencing options is different. striking a prior more of the section 667, subdivision (a) enhancements would only have reduced the determinate part of his sentence by five or 10 years. because we are unable to determine from the record whether the trial court would have exercised its discretion to enhancements, we remand to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion. 36 j. cumulative error defendant contends that the cumulative prejudicial effect of the claimed errors requires reversal. there is no cumulative prejudicial effect that requires reversal. iv. disposition the judgment is conditionally reversed and the matter is remanded to the trial court with directions to, within 90 days from the remittitur: (1) consider whether to exercise its discretion to strike the section 667, subdivision (a) enhancements (in the event the conviction is reinstated); and (2) conduct a diversion eligibility hearing under section 1001.36. if the trial court determines that defendant is not eligible for diversion, then the court shall reinstate the judgment. if the trial court determines that defendant is eligible for diversion but, in exercising its discretion, the court further determines diversion is not appropriate under the circumstances, then the court shall reinstate the judgment. 37 if the trial court determines that defendant is eligible for diversion and, in exercising its discretion, the court further determines diversion is appropriate under the circumstances, then the court may grant diversion. if defendant successfully completes diversion, the court shall dismiss the charges in accordance with section 1001.36, subdivision (e). if, however, defendant does not successfully complete diversion, the trial court shall reinstate the judgment. not to be published in the official reports. kim, j. we concur: baker, acting p. j. moor, j. 