filed 7/30/19 p. v. santana ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. juan carlos santana, defendant and appellant. b286320 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka115259) in re juan carlos santana, on habeas corpus. b293414 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka115259) appeal from judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert m. martinez, judge. affirmed and remanded. petition denied. brad kaiserman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. 2 xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, j. michael lehamann and amanda v. lopez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. juan carlos santana appeals his convictions for burglary, receiving stolen property, and second-degree murder, along with true findings for personal use firearm enhancements. he raises several challenges to his conviction and sentence. we reject his argument advanced in his direct appeal and in an accompanying petition for writ of habeas corpus that his trial counsel violated his sixth amendment right to the assistance of counsel pursuant to mccoy v. louisiana (2018) __ u.s. __, 138 s.ct. 1500 (mccoy). in mccoy, the united states supreme court held defense counsel viostrategically conceding guilt in a capital trial when the defendant vociferously insisted he was innocent throughout the case and . hconceded in closing argument santana was guilty of burglary, receiving stolen property, and second-degree murder, but urged the jury to acquit him of first-degree murder and to find the personal use firearm enhancements not true. he did not consult santana before taking that course, believing it was a strategic choice within his control. but unlike in mccoy, nothing in the record shows santana sought to maintain his innocence in a way that conflicted with some charges. thus, despite the lack of consultation, nothing overrode on this record, we find no sixth amendment violation. 3 we reject that the trial court erroneously admitted evidence pertaining to gunshot residue; insufficient evidence supported his murder conviction and firearm enhancements; and the trial court inadequately addressed juror complaints that someone in the courtroom had photographed them. we also reject santana due process challenge to his ability to pay fines and fees based on people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157 (dueas), but find resentencing proper in light of senate bill no. 620 (20172018 reg. sess.), which made the imposition of firearm enhancements discretionary. thus, we affirm the convictions but remand for resentencing. corpus. procedural background santana and his son andres1 were charged with burglary (pen. code,  459),2 receiving stolen property ( 496, subd. (a)), and murder ( 187, subd. (a)). for the murder count, several personal firearm use enhancements were alleged. during trial, andres pled no contest to voluntary manslaughter. a jury convicted santana of second-degree burglary, felony receiving stolen property (with a finding the value of the property exceeded $950), and second-degree murder, acquitting him of first-degree murder. it found the personal use firearm enhancements true. santana was sentenced to 43 years to life and was ordered to pay various fines and fees. 1 we refer to andres and others by first name to avoid confusion. 2 all undesignated statutory citations refer to the penal code. 4 santana appealed. following the issuance of mccoy, santana filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus, raising a single challenge to his convictions based on mccoy. we received an informal response and informal reply. we consolidated his direct appeal and habeas petition for purposes of argument and opinion. factual background this case arose from the shooting death of patricia salva in her home. in the days after her death but before her body was discovered, santana, andres, -according to defense coargument, the evidence demonstrated burglary, receiving stolen property, and second-degree murder, but the evidence did not demonstrate santana was the shooter or acted with premeditation. 1. prior to the murder santana divorced his ex-wife daisy in july 2016; they had four children together, including andres. santana had moved out of their home years earlier, in september 2013. their son andres moved in with santana shortly thereafter. santana had only paid less than two months of child supportnovember and december 2014, which was after his arrest in this case. santana was arrested a few times in mid-2014 before the murder, including an arrest resulting from a gunshot. at the time, he owned a silver semiautomatic firearm that was confiscated as a result of the incident; it was the only gun daisy had ever seen him possess. this arrest led him to be placed on 5 administrative leave by his employer, and he was not working. on october 4, 2014murder saw santana place a gun in a backpack worn by andres. the gun was a black revolver with brown handgrips. she told andres he could not come in the house with a gun, and both he and santana denied knowing what she was talking about. santana got upset and the two of them left. that was the only time daisy saw santana with a revolver. two days later on october 6, 2014, santana threatened to commit suicide in text messages to daisy, then he went to her work to drop off some papers and his wallet for andres. he asked agreed. later, daisy arrived home to find santana on her front porch. she confirmed she was not going to end the divorce proceedings and went inside. she heard a gunshot. she looked outside and saw the tail end of his car as he was leaving. she tried to call him but could not reach him. andres could not reach him either. she reported the incident to police and received a restraining order against santana the next day. later that night, daisy received text messages from an are, you know, doing this to your husband. he cares so much for you and everything. you know, i have no respect for you. your son and my husband are out there trying to look for him. i just the number belonged to curiegirlfriend. 6 as will become relevant later, as of august 2013 santana had leased a blue mini cooper. around late september or early october 2014, appellant drove a red mini cooper because his blue mini cooper was being serviced. 2. interactions with her salva lived alone and suffered from health and mobility issues. in her house, she kept thousands of dollars, savings bonds, and jewelry in a jewelry bag. around october 12, 2014, she had been given $700 to $1000 in brand new one-hundred-dollar bills. for two years before the murder, curiel lived with salva in exchange for performing household tasks. there was tension between salva and curiel, and at some point salva told curiel to leave. curiel did not have a car and never parked one house. sometimes saw santana and andres at , even though curiel was not permitted to have guests. aurelia h. lived across the street and saw santana approximately five times in october, sometimes with andres. -door neighbor angelica p. began seeing santana and andres about a month before the murder. husband jose saw santana and curiel regularly drinking in front of at 5:00 a.m. when he left for work. he also saw andres at least a couple of times. six days before the murder on october 10, 2014, a police officer exchange. he spoke with curiel, who was sitting in a mini cooper nearby, and he spoke with salva. he advised curiel to return on an agreed date. the officer returned two days later on 7 october 12, 2014, and observed curiel standing next to a gray pickup truck occupied by two men. curiel entered the residence and began retrieving items with the help of the two men. salva seemed upset and angry, capproximately 20 minutes, the officer left while curiel and the men were inside the house. at some point before october 12, 2014 next-door neighbors angelica and jose were awakened during the night by the sound of something shattering. after going outside, angelica testified she saw santana and andres get in the car and drive away. window in her home in the room where curiel was staying. 3. of her home salva was last seen alive the evening of thursday, october 16, 2014. several people had seen her in the preceding days. two days prior on tuesday, october 14, 2014, her son had spoken to her on the phone. her daughter had lunch plans with her the next day october 15, 2014, but salva did not show up or answer any calls that day or the next day. however, across the street aurelia, saw salva at 10:00 a.m. that day. a voicemail from salva that evening, although the friend was unable to retrieve it. the last person to see salva alive was a neighbor, who saw her sometime between 6:10 and 7:30 or 8:00 p.m. on most likely thursday, october 16, 2014, although it could have been a 8 wednesday. he saw her standing near her car with curiel and a man. she seemed upset and looked mad but told the neighbor the neighbor had previously testified the night of october 16, 2014, santana, curiel, and a third she got high on methamphetamine at some point, santana asked morales if she wanted to go help curial move and steal some items from her old residence. morales agreed, and around 10:00 or 11:00 p.m. the three drove after they entered through the open garage, santana and curiel told morales to grab whatever she could. she took makeup, costume jewelry, and bathroom items. she also collected bank records and saw curiel take bank records. santana and curiel also took a television. at some point, morales saw a covered body lying face-down in the den and smelled stench of a dead body. the trio left and , placing the stolen also brought some bags of clothing to residence. on friday, october 17, 2014, angelica noticed salva had not taken her trash bins out to the curb, which was unusual. that night, aurelia saw santana in the neighborhood, and he at a nearby liquor store, she saw him on the phone and then get into a mini cooper driven by andres. the owner of the liquor store saw santana that night as wellentered the store in a hurry, walked quickly, was out of breath, 9 and was sweating. he asked to use the phone, and when the the owner lent him his cell phone, which santana used outside. the owner heard a light blue mini cooper stopped, and santana threw the phone back to the owner and got in the car. when aurelia returned home, she spotted the mini cooper then turn around and drive by again. santana was driving and andres was the passenger. on the morning of october 18, 2014, santana and morales out a box of beer and a bag. aurelia saw him and a red-haired women she did not know (morales) arrive in the mini cooper. she saw santana enter the garage and later leave with a 30-pack of bud light and some grocery bags. angelica and jose also saw aurelia called the police. detectives arrived at sathe garage door open and lying face-down on the floor and smelled the odor of decomposing human remains. the family room and one bedroom appeared ransacked. in a different bedroom packed with items, two or three cases of beer were found. in another mostly empty bedroom, the window was broken. no bullet casings were found. the evening of october 18, 2014, andres left a bag his sister. santana later asked his daughter if she liked the jewelry and claimed he got it from a store. morales identified the jewelry 10 identified a necklace as one left for her daughter and a ring santana had given her in late september or early october. 4. arrest and recorded statements after arrest santana, andres, and curiel were arrested on october 19, 2014. during their transport to jail in a transport van, their conversation was recorded. they discussed getting rid of two andres suggested putting unless you get it with the shirt, wipe t (unint he following exchange took place: ndres: right there. try it on the other side. ndres: (unintelligible). try and get it over here. turn your handsput your hands up, put your hands up. give me that, hurry, hurry. 11 (unintelligible). did they fall off? : ndres: they fell in some kind of metal thing. they (unintelligible). they go in the : they go in the . . . (unintelligible). ndres: they also coordinated their explanations for how curiel received a television and how they had two money orders for my cell phone has text messages on it. so do i just say i all detectives listened to the recording and heard a metallic sound like a firearm cartridge casing being discarded in the van. after a search of the van about a year and a half later, they found two cartridge cases behind a loose panel. 5. post-arrest investigation an autopsy revealed salva was shot twiceonce in the left chest and once in the left mid-backand both were fatal. two bullets recovered from her were fired from a revolver, either .38 special or .357 magnum caliber. cell phone showed what appeared to be a colt revolver in his mini cooper, which resembled the gun daisy saw him place in 12 could have come from a colt revolver, and the cartridge cases found in the police van were .38 specials, consistent with the recovered bullets. the cases and the bullets had the same manufacturer. fairly new one-hundred-cooper. many items from salva were recovered from savings bonds, personal checks with signatures that were not hers, a bank card tch, as of tools. several incriminating items. it contained hing in ee/e september and early october about andres purchasing a gun. thank you for telling mother about the gun he was selling, which she thinkgrandma to feed us. we the same day andres received a text message from an individual right after that andres texted d all you would have to do 13 the individual said she was not comfortable with that, and . . . in all honesty, this is some sketchy stuff a detective explained this exchange indicated andres had a stolen check made out to a woman and he wanted to cash it. on october 7, 2014, santana sent a text message to andres meant gun. on october 16, 2014the day of the murderandres two days after the murder on october 18, 2014, santana . 6. gunshot residue expert testimony criminalist kristina fritz tested a gray shirt and pair of jeans from santana for gunshot residue (gsr). on the shirt, she found seven gsr particles and three particles consistent with gsr. on the pants, she found four gsr particles and 10 particles consistent with gsr. she concluded the items of clothing were in an environment of gsr. neighbors saw santana wearing a gray shirt and jeans on the morning of october 18, 2014. fritz also sampled clothing from andres and found gsr particles and particles consistent with gsr, opining the clothes were also in an environment of gsr. she sampled clothing from 14 curiel but found no gsr particles. she could not opine on whether the presence of gsr was a direct result of a firearm discharge or transfer from the environment. fritz reviewed a report from defense gsr expert bryan burnett, who relied on several sources to raise the possibility of gsr contamination other than from the shooting at issue. two of the cited studies concluded that the likelihood of gsr in the law enforcement environment is low. further, while the fbi stopped conducting gsr testing in 2006, it did so to shift resources, not due to testing problems. burnett also cited a he was no longer a member of the listserv after improperly posting information from an active case and altering posted data. finally, fritz office study finding gsr particles in the back seats of four patrol cars of the 50 cars tested and gsr-consistent particles in 45 of 50 cars tested. another study sampled 43 non-shooting uniformed police officers after their shifts and found three with gsr particles on their hands and half with gsr-consistent particles on their hands. 7. defense gsr expert andres called burnett as a gsr expert in his defense case. burnett opined that the source of the gsr on clothing was inconclusive because andres could have picked it up while being processed in the police environment. he agreed with most transfer is low. he also acknowledged his scanning electron microscope could not conduct the automated analysis done in the department lab. 15 discussion i. on some counts did not violate his right to counsel relying on mccoy, santana asserts two challenges to his convictions: (1) the record does not show he knowingly and voluntarily waived his constitutional rights before defense counsel conceded his guilt on some of the charges; and (2) even violated his right to make decisions about his own defense. a careful review of the case law and record leads us to reject both arguments. background give an opening statement and santana did not testify. in receiving stolen property, and second-degree murder, and even argued the evidence showed santana was guilty. for burglary, be. i will not have told you merited see where that leaves you. he argued the eyewitness testimony evidence to tell you, in my capacity as the guy at the end of the assembly line, that my client appears to be either directly or as 16 an aider and abettor guilty of second-de- to convict my client of felony burglary, felony receiving stolen property, and second- lindner strategy was to argue the evidence did not support first-degree premeditated murder or that santana was the shooter in order to support the personal use firearm enhancements. the strategy partially worked, and the jury acquitted santana of first-degree murder but found the personal use firearm enhancements to be true. the record on direct appeal does not disclose whether lindner spoke to santana about these concessions before closing argument or whether santana disagreed with his proposed strategy. the direct appeal record also contains no indication santana raised any objection to the trial court or to lindner after closing arguments were completed or during sentencing. after mccoy was decided, santana filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus challenging on sixth amendment grounds pursuant to mccoy. in support of the petition, surprised when my trial attorney, charles lindner, told the jury to convict me of the charges of burglary, receiving stolen property, and second-degree murder. i expressed my frustration him of the decision beforehand, and he did not consent to the strategy. he stated if lindner had told him beforehand he 17 lindner also submitted a declaration. he explained his objective was to prevent a first-degree murder conviction and a true finding on the firearm enhancements. his decision was based in part on florida v. nixon (2004) 543 u.s. 175 (nixon), as concessions can be stdefense table after arguing, my client (defendant) leaned over that arguing for his innocence in light of the evidence arrayed against him would, in my professional opinion, get him convicted of first degree murder and explained my reasoning. defendant attested he never obtained permission from santana to concede before making his argument and his concession violated mccoy. analysis in mccoy, the united states supreme court held the sixth to have the assistance of counsel for his defence -based view is that confessing guilt offers the defendant the best mccoy, supra, 138 s.ct. at p. 1505, italics omittedand, in capital cases, lifeat stake, it is the defendant prerogative, not of his defense: to admit guilt in the hope of gaining mercy at the sentencing stage, or to 18 maintain his innocence, leaving it to the state to prove his guilt ibid.) the issue arose in mccoy because the defendant y insisted that he did not engage in the charged acts mccoy, supra, 138 s.ct. at p. 1505.) at the outset of his case, he pleaded not guilty to the charges, and throughout the proceedings, he maintained he was out of state at the time of the killings at issue and corrupt police killed the victims when a drug deal went wrong. (id. at p. 1506.) when told two weeks before trial his counsel intended to concede his guilt as the only possible way to avoid the counsel not to make the concession and pressed to pursue acquittal. (ibid.) the defendant also sought to terminate his disagreement when he during opening statements and testified to his factual innocence. (id. at p. 1507.) after the jury returned death verdicts, the defendant unsuccessfully moved for a new trial, arguing his trial counsel violated his rights by conceding his guilt. (ibid.) t to counsel was violated, the court drew a line between trial management decisions reserved for the lawyer, arguments to pursue, what evidentiary objections to raise, and what agreements to conclude regarding the admission of whether to plead guilty, waive the right to a jury trial, testify in mccoy, supra, 138 s.ct. 19 ibid.) his lawyer must abide by that objective and may not override it by id. at p. 1509.) the court explained its holding should not displace mccoy, supra, 138 s.ct. at p. 1509.) in the particular facts in mccoy, the court explained defense counsel could not, after consultation, override the jury he was innocent. (ibid.) the court distinguished nixon, supra, 543 u.s. 175. in nixon, the court rejected a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel after defense counsel conceded the defeorder to argue against a death sentence. defense counsel tried to explain his proposed concession strategy to the defendant at least three times, but the defendant was unresponsive, neither verbally approving nor protesting the strategy, and he provided very little assistance in preparing his case. (id. at p. 181.) the a duty to discuss informed by counsel, neither consents nor objects to the course counsel describes as the most promising means to avert a sentence of death, counsel is not automatically barred from id. at p. 178.) the court in mccoy explained nixon presented a different situationthe defendant in nixon never asserted any objective 20 override his objectadmission of his guilt only after trial. [citation.] mccoy, in opportunity, before and during trial, both in conference with his lawyer and in open court . . . . [citation.] if a client declines to participate in his defense, then an attorney may permissibly guide the defense pursuant to the strategy she believes to be in of the cmccoy, supra, 138 s.ct. at p. 1509; see people v. frierson (1985) 39 cal.3d 803, 815 (kaus, j., plur. opn.) [express desire to present only viable defense in guilt phase].) lindnerfailure to consult with santana before conceding his guilt may well implicate his competence as counsel. (see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 688 [defense counsel owes duty decisions and to keep the defendant informed of important nixon, supra, 543 u.s. at p. 178.) but santanahere is not that lindner performed incompetently; his claim is that violated his own autonomy to pursue his desired objectives. that issue is distinct from performance. (see mccoy, supra, 138 s.ct. at pp. 1510apply our ineffective-assistance-of-; people v. eddy (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 472, 480 (eddy) 21 innocence implicates teffectiveness) and is thus complete once counsel usurps control of 3 while factor into this analysis, the ultimate question is whether the record reveals concession overrode the defendant desired objectives. the record in this case so it falls closer to nixon and compels us to reject his claim. other than his not guilty plea at the outset of the case, santana cites nothing in the record that his objective was to maintain his innocence (or pursue any other course of action) in conflict with argument. while true lindner did not tell santana of his planned concession strategy, even the defendant in mccoy claimed his innocence throughout the proceedings, including apparently before his counsel informed him of his strategy to concede guilt at trial. (mccoy, supra, 138 s.ct. at p. 1506.) nor did santana testify to his innocence during trial, as did the defendant in mccoy. while he certainly had the right not to testify (see eddy, supra, 33 cal.app.5th at p. 483 we also find it unnecessary that defendant actually testify in his own defense in order to enjoy mccoy.]), had he done so his testimony could have shed light on his desired defense objectives. and santana has not indicated he had any other 3 santana expressly argued in his habeas petition the analysis for prejudicial ineffective assistance of counsel is unnecessary. by doing so, he avoids the need to show prejudice, given mccoy not subject to harmless-mccoy, supra, 138 s.ct. at p. 1511.) 22 conflicts or disagreements with his counsel at any point suggesting his desidiverged.4 4 interestingly, in their surprisingly thin declarations in support of the habeas corpus petition neither santana nor alone that his objectives were to maintain his factual innocence of all charges. lindner admits only that he did not discuss the concession strategy with santana; he does not state whether at stated objectives. santana states that had they discussed the concession strategy, he would not have agreed to it. however, he, concession strategy conflicted with those objectives. both counsel and client seem to assume that a plea of not guilty sufficiently be the case. as both bench and bar know, defendants enter pleas of not guilty and go to trial for many reasons, not just to prove their factual innocence of the charged offense or offenses. (see, e.g., mccoy, supra, 138 s.ct. at pp. 1508avoiding the death penalty, the client may not share that objective. he may wish to avoid, above all else, the opprobrium that comes with admitting he killed family members. or he may hold life in prison not worth living and prefer to risk death for any hope, howeva defendant may pursue a particular defense to protect a third party at all costs; indeed, here, santana was charged along with his son andres, for reasons unrelated to his factual innocence. a defendant may spurn a particular defense because of the stigma attached to it. a defendant may want to avoid being found guilty of a particular charge because of the punishment tied to that charge alone. or a 23 most telling, the contemporaneous trial record does not concession after lindner presented it to the jury, which one would strategic choice. the only evidence of any sort of disagreement submitted after mccoy was decidedindicating he expressed his frustration to lindner at the time and would have objected to the concessions if he had been informed. nothing in the trial record at the time corroborates his statements. nor does lindner declaration close after argumentcould be interpreted two ways: either santana, a lay defendant, truly disagreed with the concessions and wished to maintain his innocence. we think the former interpretation is probably more reasonable, but even if this statement showed santana did not agree with the tactic, there is no indication lingered. in fact, lindner stated he explained his strategy to santana in response to his question, but conspicuously did not state santana continued to express disagreement with the strategy even after being given this explanation. this silent record is more akin to the nixon contemporaneous attempts to explain the concession strategy, and far different from the defendant may just want to put the prosecution to its burden of proof, regardless of outcome. because we do not know on this carried out. 24 mccoy protestations of innocence and his vocal objections before, during, and after trial. this was not a case in which lindner was but nonetheless [ed] the ship the other mccoy, supra, 138 s.ct. at p. 1509; see people v. franks (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 883, 891 mccoy makes clear, however, that for a sixth amendment violation to lie, a defendant must make his intention to maintain innocence clear to his counsel, .) -the-fact objections, raised for the first time after mccoy, simply dconcede guilt for some of the charges overrode desired objectives. our conclusion is consistent with recent cases applying mccoy. in people v. lopez (2019) 31 cal.app.5th 55 (lopez), the court rejected a claim under mccoy when the defendant raised no objection in the trial court concede guilt on a hit and run charge. (id. at p. 66.) in eddy, the court found a mccoy violation when defense counsel conceded the defendanfor voluntary manslaughter, after which the defendant objected at sentencing, maintaining his innocence, and moved for new counsel, expressing his disagreement with his eddy, supra, 33 cal.app.5th at pp. 477478.) while the court rejected the argument the defendant could not show a sixth amendment violation because he did not object during closing argumentmust show (1) and pursue an acquittal, and (2) that trial counsel disregards that objective id. at 25 p. 482.) the record here does not show either requirement. finally, in people v. flores (2019) 34 cal.app.5th 270 (flores), the court found a mccoy violation when defense counsel overrode the ed desire to maintain his innocence, and instead admitted the defendant was driving the car that seriously injured a police officer and conceded he possessed certain firearms. (flores, at pp. 273, 280.) we also boykin-tahl5 waivers were necessary before lindner could concede his guilt to certain counts. the law is clear a concession of guilt during argument is not the equivalent of a guilty plea requiring a knowing and voluntary waiver of constitutional rights. (see nixon, supra, 543 u.s. at p. 188 [rejecting argument concession of guilt is the explicit acceptance by defendant]; people v. cain (1995) 10 cal.4th 1, 30 (cain) to contest, and even expressly to concede, guilt on one or more charges at the guilt phase of a capital trial is not tantamount to a guilty plea requiring a boykin-tahl ; see also people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 446; people v. griffin (1988) 46 cal.3d 1011, 1029.) while the court in mccoy placed a concession of guilt into the category of fundamental decisions d guilty, waive the (mccoy, supra, 138 s.ct. at p. 1508), it did not equate it to a guilty plea requiring express waivers or cast doubt on these authorities. (see lopez, supra, 31 cal.app.5th at pp. 6364 5 boykin v. alabama (1969) 395 u.s. 238; in re tahl (1969) 1 cal.3d 122. 26 [citing cain to reject same mccoy argument].) as in concession, at least where, as here, there is no explicit indication cain, at p. 30.) cited by santana, we find people v. farwell (2018) 5 cal.5th 295 (farwell) distinguishable. in farwell, the california supreme court held a stipulation admitting all elements of a charged crime was tantamount to a guilty plea requiring a knowing and voluntary waiver of rights. (id. at p. 300.) that was because testablished the stipulated facts as true and completely relieved the prosecution of its burden of proof. (ibid.) the case here did not involve a stipulation of guilt. instead, the jury was instructed the prosecution had to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt and the attorney were not evidence. thus, the (lopez, supra, 31 cal.app.5th at p. 64 [distinguishing farwell on same grounds].) we also disagree the recent decision in people v. amezcua and flores (2019) 6 cal.5th 886 (amezcua) compels boykin-tahl waivers here. in that case, penalty phase of their capital trial. (id. at p. 920.) after holding an extensive hearing and obtaining express agreement from the defendants and counsel, the trial court allowed the penalty phase to proceed in accorda on appeal, the defendants claimed the court erred in allowing them to 27 override their efforts to present a penalty defense. (id. at p. 925.) the california supreme court rejected the claim, citing fundamental questions over which a represented defendant retains control is the decision whether or not to present a defense at the penalty phase of a capital trial, and the choice not to do so is not a denial of the right to counsel or a reliable penalty (amezcua, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 925.) for support, the court cited mccoy engaged in extensive and careful colloquy with defendants and their counsel to ensure that each defendant understood the stakes involved in pursuing his choice. it ensured each defendant lawyers. it confirmed that both defense teams had prepared a case in mitigation and were ready to present it. it gave each defendant several opportunities to ask questions and to explain his choice in his own words. it expressed its own concerns for each defendant as an individual and for the preservation of each uards. the court interacted with each defendant directly and with courtesy. it took the same kind of care that is required when ensuring that the waiver of any substantial right is personally and properly made. it explicitly found that each defendant had made his own choice knowingly and voluntarily. the procedure employed here satisfied the judgments consistently with mccoyid. at p. 926.) santana reads this passage to require a trial court to take knowing and voluntary waivers under mccoy 28 elects not to present an argument consistent with the normal it is highly doubtful the court silently overruled cain and the other cases cited above to impliedly hold that knowing and voluntary waivers are now required under mccoy. the court simply recognized the record in the case reflected extensive discussions decisions, ensuring their choices in the case were, in fact, knowing and voluntary. in any event, even if this passage could be interpreted as santana contends, the very first sentence distinguishes it, given the record here does not amezcua, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 926.) right to counsel pursuant to mccoy. ii. santana forfeited his objection to gsr expert santana contends the trial court abused its discretion and violated his constitutional rights by admitting testimony on gsr. he did not object to the testimony in the trial court, so we find his argument forfeited. -defendant andres moved before trial to exas unreliable, irrelevant, and unduly prejudicial because of the high likelihood of secondary transfer before his clothing was collected for gsr testing. specifically, andres argued his clothing was not collected until two days after he was arrested, which was seven days after the alleged shooting. during that timemini cooper, had ridden in the police van and other police vehicles, was pat-searched by multiple officers, and was transported to multiple detention facilities. he also requested 29 the court conduct a kelly6 hearing to assess the methodology of gsr testing. santana did not join this motion or raise any logy, but continued to focus on he argued appeal. (people v. wilson (2008) 44 cal.4th 758, 793 [ generally, failure to join in the objection or motion of a codefendant constitutes a waiver of the issue on appeal. his failure to object should be excused because any specific objection from him would have been futile, given the trial court ibid. howev.) we disagreemotion was based largely on the factually unique circumstances surrounding his arrest and processing in custody, which he argued created a high likelihood of gsr transfer. on appeal, santana argexcluded due to his factually specific circumstances surrounding his actions before the murder and his processing after arrest. presumably the focus of his argument to the trial court would have also been his processing in the police environment, which would have raised unique factual questions about the likelihood of gsr transfer. by not raising the issue before now, he has forfeited it. 6 people v. kelly (1976) 17 cal.3d 24. 30 iii. sufficient evidence supported the murder court and personal use firearm enhancement second-degree murder verdict and its findings that he personally used a firearm. we address the verdict and enhancements together because we find the evidence was sufficient to support personally shooting her twice. favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 887.) where the evidence is circumstantial, as was much of the evidence heremust decide whether the circumstances reasonably justify those id. at pp. 887888.) the statements in the jail transport van among santana, andres, and curiel strongly supported an inference that santana was the shooter. he, andres, and curiel discussed getting rid of my get (italics added.) although the casings never expressed any concern his fingerprints were also on them. santana also said, we shot it and then they found it, yo(unintelligible),to which you shot it. (italics added.) santana did not respond or correct her comment, strongly suggesting he pulled the trigger. 31 was the murder weapon. less than two weeks before the murder, daisy saw santana place a black revolver with brown handgrips in a backpack worn by andres. on october 7, 2014, santana my contained a photograph of a revolver in his mini cooper, which colt revolver, which was the type of gun in the photograph. the cartridge cases found in the police van were also consistent with the recovered bullets. there was also evidence santana had previously fired a gun; there was no evidence that andres or curiel ever had. finally, the evidence of gsr and gsr-consistent particles on the clothing santana was wearing the night of the murder supported an inference santana was close to the gun when it discharged. santana argues the jury could not rely on the gsr evidence to infer he was the shooter because gsr and gsr-in his view, the gsr evidence gave rise to two equally plausible inferenceseither santana or andres personally used the gunso neither was established. (see people v. acevedo (2003) 105 santana misunderstands the significance of the gsr evidence in the case. he is correct fritz opined only that es were in an environment of gsr. while 32 incidence of secondary transfer is low. from that testimony, the jury could infer santana was present when the gun was discharged. coupling that inference with the incriminating statements from the police van and the evidence that the gun belonged to santana, the jury could have reasonably concluded santana was in fact the shooter. for that reason, people v. botello (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1014 is distinguishable. there, the court accepted respondentconcession that insufficient evidence supported personal firearm use enhancements because the only apparent witness to the shooting could not identify which of the two identical twin defendants was the shooter. (id. at p. 1022.) here, the gsr evidence was merely one link in the chain of evidence leading to a conclusion santana was the shooter. o verdict. for example, t to commit the murder. the evening of the murder a neighbor observed tension and an argument between salva and curiel and a man whom the jury could have inferred was santana, suggesting some animosity among the three. the evidence also showed a motive to kill salva in order to steal money and valuables from her. before the placed him on administrative leave. after the murder, he had paid only a bit items were recovered, from savings bonds and cash to jewelry and a television. given santana, andres, and curiel most likely had to spthose items, her murder would have facilitated the thefts without interference. 33 also, the text messages and other information recovered from the perpetratoattempted to cover up the murder and directed andres to find someone to cash in order to capitalize on the crimes. when one individual declined to help cash the checks, andres responded, ome andres also texted curiel on the day of the murder murdephone. one of the phones also had a text message from the same which was later deleted. in the police van, the three discussed deleting incriminating information on their cell phones and coordinating stories about how they obtained the television and how they had two money orders for $1,000 antana also directed the others, santana cites two cases to support his argument this evidence was insufficient, but both found insufficient evidence in the unique, detailed factual circumstances present in each case and not present here. in people v. lara (2017) 9 cal.app.5th 296 (lara), sufficient evidence showed the defendant aided and abetted an assault with a firearm, but the court found only suspicion supported a finding he had pulled the trigger or willfully aided and abetted murder of the victim, which took place after the assault and after the victim was dragged to another area. (id. at pp. 319people v. sanford (2017) 11 cal.app.5th 84 (sanford), the court 34 found insufficient evidence of robbery when the only evidence linking the defendant to the crime was his presence in one of two getaway cars, and uncontroverted evidence showed at least one after the robbery but before being located by police. (id. at pp. 8586.) for the reasons already explained, the evidence here was sufficient to show santana murdered salva by shooting her, distinguishing this case from lara and sanford. thus, the jury could have reasonably concluded beyond a reasonable doubt that santana murdered salva by shooting her twice, which satisfied the second-degree murder verdict and personal use firearm enhancements. iv. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in investigating juror concerns about being photographed during trial, a juror and an alternate juror each raised an photographs of members of the jury. santana argues the trial court violated his impartiality had been affected. the claim lacks merit. the issue arose when the prosecutor informed the court and defense counsel that juror no. 10 approached the family members were taking photographs of jurors. the court clerk then reported a second juror approached court staff about the same issue. the court inquired who was in the courtroom at members were there. neither counsel requested further questioning of the jurors. 35 whether he had been wearing a raiders shirt the previous day. he said no and did not know who was wearing one. at the end of that day, the court addressed the photographing issue: whether someone was trying to record, video-record, or photograph individuals in the courtroom yesterday; and i received communications from two jurors about that concern. office. in any event, i prepared a note that was delivered to each of the two identified jurors yesterday, and that note reads as follows: possible photographing of jurors. please do not share your concerns with any other jurors or persons. should you see the individual or individuals again, please write a note and give it to the bailiff or the clerk. please also provide a note of the physical or clothing description of that person. ll -the court would make that note available to counsel and sealed. the note described the incident and the individual taking the photographs, and the juror indicated the individual did not return after the noon recess. again, neither party requested that the court question the juror or take any further action. following closing argument, the court questioned juror no. 10 outside the presence of the other jurors. the court told 36 few days ago has interfered with your ability to be objective in e court whether it was an actuality or not; but, again, we just want to compromise in you in terms of being a juror and being objective and making the decision according to the law and according to court asked if either counsel wished to inquire, and neither did. as the bailiff took charge of the jury, the court and counsel decided the replacement of jurors with alternates would be random. it was apparently determined off the record the juror who wrote the note about the photographing incident was alternate juror no. 3. the parties stipulated alternate juror no. 3 would only be selected as a juror of last resort. dies or becomes ill, or upon other good cause shown to the court is found to be unable to perform his or her duty, or if a juror requests a discharge and good cause appears therefor, the court people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 941942 (martinez).) requires or warrants further investigto investigate the possibility of juror bias, incompetence, or misconductlike the ultimate decision to retain or discharge a 37 jurorred only where the court possesses information which, if proven to be true, would [citation.](martinez, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 942does not abuse its discretion simply because it fails to investigate any and all new information obtained about a juror during ibid.) in his opening brief, santana argues the court was alerted to the possibility zero he is mistaken, as he concedes in his reply brief. he shifts his argument to contend the inquiry the court made was inadequate. we find no abuse of discretion. when alerted, the court sent a note to the two jurors who expressed concerns and assured them the court was looking into the matter. the court also admonished them not to discuss the issue with other jurors. later, the court confirmed through questioning on the record that juror no. 10 was unaffected by the incident and could be impartial. while santana faults the court for not asking if juror no. 10 shared the information with other jurors, nothing in the record suggested that was a concern; to the contrary, juror no. 10 was admonished not to share it. both counsel appeared inquiry and opted not to question the juror further. as for alternate juror no. 3, the court and parties agreed to use that juror as last resort, and neither party suggests the juror was proper and no further inquiry was required. 38 v. santana challenge to the fines and fees fails at sentencing, santana was assessed a $5,000 restitution fine ( 1202.4), a stayed $5,000 parole revocation fine ( 1202.45), a $120 court operations assessment ( 1465.8), and a $90 court facilities assessment (gov. code,  70373). relying on dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th 1157, santana argues these fines and fees must be reversed on due process grounds and his case remanded for a determination of his ability to pay. he did not raise this issue in the trial court. for the reasons set forth in people v. frandsen (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 1126, 11531155 (frandsen), we find the issue forfeited. (see people v. bipialaka (2019) 34 cal.app.5th 455, 464 [citing frandsen to find dueas issue forfeited for failure to object in trial court].)7 we also reject santanaalternative claim his counsel was ineffective for failing to raise the issue in the trial court. he has not shown prejudice. (frandsen, supra, 33 cal.app.5th at pp. 11501151 [defendant must show both ineffective assistance and prejudice].) nothing in the record indicates the court would have found him unable to pay the fines and fees had the issue been raised. although santana claims without analysis or citation to authority that pay because he used appointed counsel, the ability-to-pay standard for appointing counsel may well be different than the standard for imposing fines and fees. (see people v. douglas (1995) 39 cal.app.4th 1385, 1397 [identifying different standards 7 dueas did not address the imposition of a suspended parole revocation fine pursuant to section 1202.45. santana appears to direct his ability-to-pay challenge to that fine as well, but does not raise any distinct argument. we decline to separately consider it and find the challenge forfeited. 39 for appointing counsel and paying restitution fine and concluding a defe-argument with authority, so we reject it. (cal. rules of court, rules 8.204(a)(1)(b), 8.360(a).) even if we considered the merits of his claim, we would reject it. again, nothing in the record supports the contention that the imposition of the fines and fees here was fundamentally unfair to santana or violated due process. the facts here bear no similarity to the unique factual circumstances presented in dueas. in a probation report prepared before sentencing, santana was given notice that fees and a restitution fine would be imposed. he was present at the sentencing hearing with his counsel when the court sentenced him to 43 years to life and imposed the now-challenged fines and fees pursuant to clear statutory authority. in the absence of an objection by santana, the trial court could presume the assessments and fine would be paid out of his future prison wages. (see people v. johnson (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 134,132140; see also people v. frye (1994) 21 cal.app.4th 1483, 1487.) defendant has not articulated any basis for finding prejudice or a due process violation. vi. remand for resentencing is proper for the firearm enhancements santana seeks remand for resentencing in light of senate bill no. 620, effective january 1, 2018, which amended sections 12022.5, subdivision (c), and 12022.53, subdivision (h), to give the trial court discretion whether to strike previously mandatory the interest of justice pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of 40 sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may occur pursuant the discretion to strike a firearm enhancement may be exercised as to any defendant whose conviction is not final as of the effective date of the amendment. (see in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 742748; people v. brown (2012) 54 cal.4th 314, 323.) because conviction was not final when senate bill no. 620 went into effect, respondent agrees that remand is proper, as do we. (see people v. vieira (2005) 35 cal.4th 264, 305 people v. smith (2015) 234 cfinal when the availability of an appeal and the time for filing a see also bell v. maryland [criminal] proceeding which, at the time of the supervening legislation, has not yet reached final disposition in the highest on remand, the court may exercise its discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h), to strike all of the firearm enhancements under that provision or impose any one of the enhancements. if the court chooses to impose a firearm enhancement, it must strike any enhancement(s) providing a longer term of imprisonment, and impose and stay any enhancement(s) providing a lesser term. ( 12022.53, subds. (f) & (h).) for example, the court may choose to impose the 25-year-to-life enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). if so, it 41 should impose and stay the enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (b). if the court imposes the 20-year enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (c), it must then strike the 25-year-to-life enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), and impose and stay the 10-year enhancement under subdivision (b). moreover, any enhancement imposed under section 12022.53 must be imposed consecutively rather than concurrently. in addition, the trial court has discretion to strike only the punishment for the enhancement. ( 1385, subdivision (a); in re pacheco (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1439, 1443determining whether to strike the entire enhancement or only the punishment for the enhancement, the court may consider the effect that striking the enhancement would have on the status of the crime as a strike, criminal conduct on his or her record, the effect it may have on the award of custody credits, and any other relevant disposition the matter is remanded for resentencing for the trial court to consider striking the firearm enhancements. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. the petition for writ of habeas corpus is denied. 42 bigelow, p. j. we concur: grimes, j. stratton, j. 