filed 1/31/19 p. v. escobedo ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. amanda escobedo, defendant and appellant. b286327 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba455288) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, norman j. shapiro, judge. affirmed. pamela j. voich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and daniel c. chang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 jurors convicted defendant amanda escobedo of robbery, rejecting her mistaken identity defense. at trial, defendant argued that jurors should discredit two eyewitness identifications of defendant. the jury verdict indicated that jurors found one or both eyewitnesses credible. on appeal, defendant argues the people v. boyer (2006) 38 cal.4th 412, 480.) we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background it was undisputed that on january 16, 2017, two women entered a 99 plus bargain market owned by chanteer and benjamin chai. the first woman took a canister used to inflate tires and left the store without paying for it. chanteer approached the first woman and threatened to call the police. as chanteer called 911, a second woman hit chanteer multiple description of the robbery. benjamin saw the second woman attack chanteer. he assisted chanteer by separating chanteer and the second woman. the principal issue at trial was whether defendant was the second woman. 1. evidence that defendant was the woman who hit chanteer chanteer testified that she covered her face to protect it from being hit. she further testified that she saw the second immediately after the incident, chanteer provided officers 3 color, age, and weight and further described the second woman as woman in more detail immediately after the incident. chanteer did not identify defendant in a six-your at trial, chanteer testified that she saw defendant in the hallway before the preliminary hearing and recognized her. chanteer pointed her out to an officer prior to the preliminary hearing. during the preliminary hearing, chanteer identified defendant as the person who hit her. at trial, chanteer testified that she was able to recognize defendant at the preliminary from viewing only her face in the six-pack photographic line up. after the preliminary hearing, chanteer told her husband benjamin that she saw the person who hit her. at trial, benjamin identified defendant as the person who hit chanteer on january 16, 2017. benjamin testified that he had been standing approximately six or seven feet away when he saw defendant hit chanteer. he testified that he observed ace. benjamin expressed confidence that defendant was the person who hit chanteer. benjamin also testified that he recognized defendant outside of the courtroom when he was eating lunch in the courthouse. benjamin did not identify defendant in a six-pack photographic lineup containing her picture. benjamin testified . . . benjamin acknowledged that he watched the surveillance video 4 prior to his in-trial identification. benjamin further testified that watching someone hit his wife was a stressful event. officer sean kim obtained a photograph of defendant. he person recorded on the surveillance video of the 99 plus bargain store. jurors watched the surveillance video, which depicted the person who hit chanteer. 2. jury instructions people to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant is the person who committed the crime with which she is charged. [] if, after considering the circumstances of the identification and any other evidence in this case, you have a reasonable doubt whether defendant was the person who committed the crime, you must give the defendant the benefit of that doubt and find her the trial court also instructed jurors on factors to consider in proving identity by eyewitness testimony as follows: as been received in this trial for the purpose of identifying the defendant as the perpetrator of the crime charged. in determining the weight to be given eyewitness identification testimony, you should consider the believability of the eyewitness as well as other factors which bear upon the , but not limited to, any of the following: the opportunity of the witness to observe the alleged criminal act and the perpetrator of the act; the stress, if any, to which the witness was subjected at the time of the observation; 5 description of the perpetrator of the act; the extent to which the defendant either fits or does not fit the description of the perpetrator previously given by the witness; the cross-racial or ethnic nature of the identification; whether the witness was able to identify the alleged perpetrator in a photographic lineup; the period of time between the alleged criminal act and whether the witness had prior contacts with the alleged perpetrator; the extent to which the witness is either certain or uncertain of the identification; his or her own recollection; and 3. dant was not the person who hit chanteer. counsel emphasized that chanteer could not remember the physical description of the assailant immediately after the incident. counsel pointed out that chanteer could not identify defendant in a six-pack photographic lineup. counsel argued it was beyond common sense to conclude identifica 6 an eyewitness identification . . . are pretty serious factors, and counsel argued that chanteer had a limited opportunity to view the person hitting her because chanteer covered her face to protect it. according to defense counsel, the person portrayed in the surveillance video was not defendant. counsel argued that cross-racial identifications can be incorrect (and it appears that defendant was not the same race as chanteer or benjamin). could not be equated with accuracy. counsel warned jurors: t be fooled by the certainty that they displayed on the witness stand . . . 4. verdict and sentence defendant was found guilty of one count of second degree robbery. the trial court suspended execution of a three-year prison sentence and placed her on probation for five years. defendant timely appealed. discussion on appeal, defendant argues that the prosecution failed to present substantial evidence to prove her identity as the person whether there is substantial evidence, i.e., evidence from which a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the prosecution sustained its burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] evidence meeting this standard satisfies constitutional due process and reliability concerns. [citations.] [] while the appellate court must determine that the 7 supporting evidence is reasonable, inherently credible, and of solid value, the court must review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, and must presume every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citatio(people v. boyer, supra, 38 cal.4th at pp. 479-480.) supported the conclusion that defendant hit chanteer. the testimony of one eyewitness is sufficient to prove the identity of the person who committed a crime. (people v. boyer, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 480.) in this case, two eyewitnesses identified defendant. both chanteer and benjamin identified defendant in court. chanteer also identified her in the hallway prior to the preliminary hearing and at the preliminary hearing. this evidence is sufficient to establish that defendant was the person who hit chanteer during the course of the robbery. (see people v. cooks (1983) 141 cal.app.3d 224, 278 [testimony of 90 percent sure sufficient].) on appeal, preliminary hearing or at trial. defendant did so in front of the arguments aimed at discrediting chanteer and benjamin. on determinations. (people v. boyer, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 480.) 8 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. 