filed 1/4/19 p. v. jijon ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. mario jijon, defendant and appellant. b286925 (los angeles county super. ct. no.na104300) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, richard r. romero, judge. affirmed in part, remanded in part with directions. stanley d. radtke, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael c. keller and scott a. taryle, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury found defendant mario jijon guilty of premeditated attempted murder and assault with a deadly weapon after he conviction on appeal, asserting that there was insufficient evidence of premeditation, that the court should have offered a sua sponte jury instruction on the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter, and that his counsel was ineffective for failing to request a pinpoint instruction as to provocation. we disagree and affirm the judgment of conviction. defendant also asserts that the case should be remanded for resentencing under recent changes to penal code section 667, subdivision (a). the attorney general agrees sentence is available for reconsideration. we therefore remand to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion under penal code section 667, subdivision (a). factual and procedural background the los angeles county district attorney (the people) filed an information charging defendant with one count of attempted murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664, count 1)1 and one count of assault with a deadly weapon, a knife ( 245, subd. (a)(1), count 2)). as to count 1, the information alleged that the offense was premeditated, and in the commission of the offense defendant personally used a deadly weapon, a knife. ( 664, subd. (a), 12022, subd. (b)(1).) as to count 2, the information alleged that defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury upon the victim. ( 12022.7, subd. (a).) the information also 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 alleged that defendant had prior convictions. defendant pled not guilty and the matter proceeded to trial. at trial, angel n.2 testified that at 11:20 p.m. on may 27, 2016, he and his father, alfonso q., were in long beach, seated at a bus stop waiting for a bus. a man with a black sweatshirt and a balloon also arrived at the bus stop; at trial, angel identified him as defendant. another man was there as well; he was angel and alfonso were having a conversation, and defendant backed away as if his feelings were hurt. with the hoodie and the balloon comes out of nowhere and stabs with his left hand. defense counsel asked the jury to observe that defendant only had two fingers on his left hand. angel testified that about 10 or 15 minutes passed between the time he noticed defendant at the bus stop and the stabbing. on cross-examination, angel testified that defendant and the man in white were talking for about three minutes before the man in white walked away and defendant stabbed alfonso. total between the time when this person arrived, was having a 2we refer to the victims by first names to protect their privacy. (see cal. rules of court, rule 8.90(b)(4).) 4 conversation with another person, and the time that your dad went across the street to a 7-eleven. angel called 911, and a recording of the call was played for the jury. on the call, angel reported his location and said his father had been stabbed in the strage 35, and wearing all black. angel described the direction in which defendant was walking. the police later took angel to where they had apprehended a suspect, and angel identified defendant as the perpetrator. witness jimmie parker testified that on the night of may 27, 2016, he was on his 10th floor balcony overlooking the yelling starting at the 7-his neck and fall to his knees, and the other people were yelling at this som white bag and some downstairs and told officers that he had seen the man put something in a tree. they went over to the tree and discovered a box cutter in the tree. long beach police department officer lisa mccourt testified that when she responded to the scene of the incident, 5 parker approached her and said he had seen what happened. parker said the man in black had a single birthday balloon. parker also showed her where the man stopped by a tree, and the box cutter and booked it into evidence. long beach police department officer benjamin cobb testified that on the night of the incident, he was dispatched to sweatshirt, black pants, holding a plastic bag and a birthday iption, whom cobb identified as defendant. cobb and his partner took defendant into custody. another officer brought a witness over for a field showup to identify the suspect. on cross-examination, cobb testified that he did not notice blood on defendanor clothing. alfonso q. testified that he and angel were at the bus stop on the night of may 27, 2016. a man approached from behind alfonso and angel resumed talking to one another, and the man then ran toward a nearby alley and vacant gas this sha something large, i mean, like a white jacket or white coat. i -6 he thought the person was tall and wearing a white shirt or jacket. on redirect, alfonso said that his impression that the grabbed his neck to stanch the flow of blood, and told angel to call an ambulance. an ambulance arrived and took alfonso to the hospital; the wound required thirteen staples and left a scar. medical records as evidence, and rested. the parties briefly addressed jury instructions, and agreed to the instructions with no objections. the jury found defendant guilty of attempted murder, count 1, and found true the allegations that the crime was premeditated, that defendant personally used a knife, and that defendant inflicted great bodily injury on alfonso. the jury also found defendant guilty of assault with a deadly weapon, count 2, and found true the allegation that defendant inflicted great bodily injury on alfonso. following a bench trial, the court the court sentenced defendant to 23 years to life on count 1, and stayed the sentence for count 2. defendant appealed. discussion a. defendant contends that the premeditation sentencing enhancement should be stricken because it is not supported by sufficient evidence of deliberation and premeditation. he asserts premeditated intent to kill alfonso. defendant argues that impulse hastily execute evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in 7 the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable (people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) the sufficiency of the evidence to support an enhancement using the same standard we apply to a conviction. [citation.] thus, we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact (people v. wilson (2008) 44 cal.4th 758, 806.) reful weighing of considerations in advance. [citations.] deliberation does not require any extended period of time. true test is not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at (people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1080.) here, the evidence made clear that there was a pause statement. after alfonso spoke to defendant, defendant backed away as if his feelings were hurt, and told the other man that alfonso and angel were making him angry. when the man in response and the stabbing, while the other men talked. this evidence was sufficient to allow the jury to reasonably find that 8 defendant weighed considerations in forming the course of his actions. defendant notes that the supreme court stated in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-which this court has found sufficient to sustain a finding of planning activity, motive, and a preconceived design to take the life in a certain way. defendant argues that deliberation was not sufficiently proven because the anderson factors were not present here. as the supreme court has cautioned, however, anderson did not purport to establish an exhaustive list that would exclude all other types and combinations of evidence that (people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1125.) thus, anderson for a definition of premeditation is inappropri (people v. thomas (1992) 2 cal.4th 489, 517.) even measured by the anderson factors, however, the evidence supports a finding of deliberation. angel testified that defendant told the maalfonso was a motive. planning activity was suggested by man suggested that defendant coulabout the fact that alfonso had angered defendant. although defendant seemed to reject the suggestion that action should be taken, the evidence showed that he then armed himself and approached alfonso from behind, thus allowing for an inference that defendant created a plan to attack alfonso by surprise. in 9 that ultimately required 13 staples, allowed for an inference that fe by cutting an extremely evidence of a preconceived design to kill. (see people v. elliot finding of premeditation was supported by substantial evidence. b. defendant asserts that the trial court erred by not sua sponte instructing the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted voluntary manslaughter. he argues that the evidence supports a finding that defendant acted in the heat of passion or novo standard of review and independently determine whether an instruction on the lesser included offense of [attempted] voluntary manslaughter should have been given.people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 584 (manriquez).) (a), refpeople v. lee (1999) manslaughter . to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection, and from this people v. 10 thomas ibid.) the heat of passion requirement has both an objective and a subjective component. (manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 584.) would naturally be aroused in the mind of an ordinarily (ibid.) thus, to establish that heat of passion was caused by manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 585-586.) the objective standard has not been met here. even if any other provocative conduct would not cause an average, sober person to lose reason and judgment. in manriquez, supra, the defendant, repeatedly asserting that if defendant had a weapon, id. at p. 586.) the supreme court held that thescause an average person to become so inflamed as to lose reason ibid.) the evidence herea single statement and no additional interaction before the stabbingwas not sufficient to support a findistatement was sufficient provocation to warrant a heat-of-passion finding under section 192, subdivision (a). only if there is substantial evidence from which a jury could reasonably conclude that the defendant committed the lesser, 11 people v. thomas, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 813.) here, because the evidence could not support a finding under the objective heat of passion requirements, that standard has not been met. the trial moreover, even if we were to assume for the sake of argument that substantial evidence justified an instruction on attempted voluntary manslaughter, reversal is not warranted. of the entire record establishes a reasonable probability that the error affected the oupeople v. thomas, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 814.) here, the jury found true the allegation that the attempted murder was willful, deliberate, and premeditated, and we have found that substantial evidence supports that e[s] any possibility that defendant was prejudiced from the failure to instruct on provocation/heat of people v. cruz (2008) 44 cal.4th 636, 665.) c. defendant asserts that his counsel was ineffective for failing to request a pinpoint instruction on the subjective test for provocation. defendant argues that his counsel should have requested an instruction to consider provocation under a subjective standard, which could negate premeditation. as noted above, the heat of passion standard requires an objective element to reduce malice murder to voluntary manslaughter. on the reduce malice murder from the first to the second degree: it inquires whether the defendant in fact committed the act because he was provoked. the rationale is that provocation may negate 12 the elements of premeditation, deliberateness and willfulness (people v. jones (2014) 223 cal.app.4th 995, 1000; see also people v. hernandez (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1327, 1333.) the ground of incompetence of counsel only if the record on appeal demonstrates there could be no rational tactical purpose for people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, challenged actions or omissions, the conviction must be affirmed unless there coupeople v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 569.) in addition, the conviction must be upheld unless the defendant demonstrates that but for would have been different. (ibid.) the attorney general asserts that the record reveals no must be affirmed. defendant appears to agree reasoning is not reflected in the record, but cosimply made no sense not to ask for an instruction on failing to request a pinpoint instruction. we disagree with dexplanation for the omission. because the jury was instructed with calcrim 601, regarding the standards for premeditation and deliberation, t the existing instruction was sufficient and an additional instruction 13 on provocation was unnecessary. in addition, defense counsel ho an instruction on provocation would have increased the focus on defendant as the assailant, which would have undermined the main defense of mistaken identity. thus, we are not persuaded b moreover, defendant has not demonstrated that the failure to include such an instruction was prejudicial. the jury was given full and proper instructions, including an instruction on actions were premeditated. as discussed above, this finding is supported by substantial evidence. evidence of provocationa single statement by alfonso and no additional interactionwas extremely weak. on the other hand, there was ample evidence that defendant considered the course of action he would take next, discussing his anger with the man in white, waiting several minutes, then approaching alfonso from behind to slash his neck. defendant has not established that a pinpoint instruction on subjective provocation was warranted in light of the evidence presented, or that the result of the proceeding would have been different had counsel requested such an instruction. thus, reversal is not warranted on the basis that counsel was ineffective. d. which, effective january 1, 2019, amends sections 667(a) and 1385(b) to allow a court to exercise its discretion to strike or 14 dismiss a prior serious felony conviction for sentencing purposes. (stats. 2018, ch. 1013,  1-2.) under the [previous] versions of these statutes, the court [was] required to impose a five-year person convicted of a serious felony who serious felony for purposes of enhancement of a sentence under people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 971.) defendant asks that this matter be remanded to allow the court to exercise its discretion under the amended version of section 667, subdivision (a). the attorney general recognizes that defend.3 we therefore remand to allow the court to exercise its discretion as provided in section 667, subdivision (a). 3in its brief filed november 1, 2018, the attorney general aim was not ripe because the changes implemented by s.b. 1393 were not yet effective. that argument is now moot. 15 disposition the case is remanded for the trial court to exercise its discretion under penal code section 667, subdivision (a). in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: manella, p. j. dunning, j* * judge of the orange county superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 