filed 5/31/19 p. v. banks ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. edward eugene banks, defendant and appellant. b286858 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta142468) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kelvin d. filer, judge. affirmed and remanded for resentencing. _______________ joanna rehm, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, noah p. hill, and nathan guttman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 edward eugene banks was convicted of making a criminal threat and second degree murder in connection with the shooting death of jason thompson, a perceived rival for former ffections. banks appeals his convictions on four grounds. first, banks argues the prosecutor committed misconduct by making false representations in order prior conviction evidence. we conclude that banks forfeited any prosecutorial misconduct argument by failing to raise the issue or request an admonition below, and that the prnot misconduct in any event. second, banks argues the trial court erred in admitting in a tape-recorded 911 call. we reject , as the admission of this evidence was harmless in any event, when considered in the context of the other evidence. third, banks argues he received ineffective representation when his trial counsel failed to object to the lead investigating officerimproper opinions regarding banksthe credibility of certain witnesses. again, we disagree. banks context in which it was offered, and exaggerates its potential impact. fourth, banks contends the court erred in denying an instruction on the lesser offense of heat of passion voluntary manslaughter. but even when viewed in the light most favorable to banks, the evidence cannot support a finding of objectively reasonable provocation, a necessary element of heat of passion manslaughter. in addition, banks argues he is entitled to remand for resentencing so that the trial court may exercise its discretion under senate bill no. 620, because the bill went into effect after 3 banks was sentenced and applies retroactively. given that nothing in the record suggests it would be futile to offer the trial court this opportunity to strike the previously mandatory firearm enhancement , we agree. accordingly, we remand for the court to consider striking the firearm enhancement. in all other respects, we affirm. factual background edward eugene banks was charged with making a criminal threat against shwandra jeter, his former girlfriend (pen. code,  422, subd. (a)),1 and the murder of jason thompson, a friend of the jeter family ( 187), along with firearm allegations ( 12022.53, subds. (b)(d)) as to the murder, and prior conviction and prison term allegations as to both counts. ( 667, subds. (a)(1) & (d), 1170.12, subd. (b),  667.5, subd. (b).) i. evidence at trial in the first portion of a bifurcated trial, the prosecutiontheory of the case was that banks was jealous, violent, and controlling in his relationship with jeter, irrationally perceived thompson to be a rival for jeter, shot thompson because of it, and threatened jeter with further violence if she told the police. we initially provide a general outline of the evidence the prosecution offered to support this theory. s appellate arguments, we provide further detail regarding the as necessary. 1 unless otherwise indicated, all statutory references are to the penal code. 4 a. banks and jeter banks and jeter were romantically involved on and off for approximately five years and have three young children together. during police interviews played for the jury, jeter and her family described banks as jealous, controlling, and abusive. other evidence supported this as well. for example, in 2014, jeter was visiting banks in las vegas with their children, and banks would not let her leave. banks threatened to push their infant (in a stroller) into traffic if jeter tried to contact the police. jeter was eventually able to call 911, and no charges were filed. jennifer jeter, jealousy and obsession with jeter jeter of being involved with other men. jeter broke up with banks two weeks before the shooting. one repeated s jealousy was thompson, a close friend of jeterfamily (the family). thompson lived in palmdale but worked in los angeles, and as a result often stayed at the home where jeter lived with her children (three children with banks, as well as two older children from a previous relationship, trayveon and rayveon), jetermother, sister jennifer, and jenniferchildren. banks believed jeter was interested in thompson. early in banks and jeter relationship, banks and thompson had a physical altercation regarding jeter. thompson was about a foot taller than banks, and badly beat banks. the fight occurred at least a year prior to the shooting, and by some witness accounts several years before. thompson initially distanced himself from the family after the fightpartially at motherbut he eventually began visiting jeter and the family again. 5 b. the day of the shooting the layout of the area surrounding the family home is important to understanding witness testimony regarding the shooting. the family home was a rear unit of a duplex on west 92nd street in los angeles. the door on the front of the duplex building leads only to the front unit. the main door for the rear unit is on the side of the building, along a driveway from the street to a rear parking area. on the side of the building opposite the driveway, a small patch of land runs from the parking area toward the front of the boundary fence. 1. events leading up to the shooting on october 22, 2016, thompson was visiting the family home. late that afternoon, jeter, mother and father, and banks were playing dominos at a table set up in the driveway. the record is unclear as to where thompson was at this time. jeter and banks then took a short trip to the store with their children. father left, and thompson moved his car to let car out of the driveway. thompson parked his car across from the family home on west 92nd street. after jeter and banks returned, their children went to play outside. shortly before the shooting, banks was talking to jeter, when thompson interjected and igga, in response to which jeter o. . . . my baby 6 2. trial testimony regarding the shooting mother testified that she was in the house when she heard what sounded like fireworks. she ran toward the front of the house, where she found jeter on the doorstep, who said, they shootin out there. go o mother know whether jeter was coming in or going out of the home. a neighbor testified to hearing five quick pops of what sounded like fireworks, followed by please, r leaving quickly. another neighbor also heard a woman screaming during the shooting. jeterrayveon, testified that, while he was outside with his brothers, . rayveon was seven years old at the time of the shooting and nine years old when he testified. he testified to seeing banks jump on top of father and no. rayveon testified that thompson ran to his car across the street, and drove away. rayveon also saw his aunt barbara (jeterother sister barbara jeter), who did not live at the family home, tell banks to stop. on cross-examination, rayveon testified he was in the backyard when he heard the shots, and that one cannot see the street from where he was when he initially heard the shots. rayveon also testified that his mother and his aunt barbara had told him to not say anything about thompson. rayveon was not living with his mother at the time he testified. at trial, jeter testified that she knew nothing about the shooting, at one point denying she even heard gunshots on the day of the shooting. the prosecution impeached this testimony by playing video recordings of prior statements during police 7 interviews, reflecting jetershooting. 3. prior statements to police regarding shooting a. statements to detective fontes the prosecution played portions of a video recording in which, four days after the shooting, detective fontes, the lead investigator on the case, interviews jeter. in the video, jeter describes banks as the shooter several times, but also claims to have learned that information only from neighbors. she also tells detective fontes that the day after the shooting, banks said, i got that nigger and i the video reflects detective fontes presenting jeter ix-up, and jeter choosing a photograph of banks when asked whether she sees person that detective fontes asks jeter to write an explanation of why she selected that photograph, in response to which she wrote: [sic] edward banks and he shot jason [thompson] b. statements to detective peraza several months after the shooting (and jeterinterview with detective fontes), a multi-agency team interviewed jeter, jeters children, and sister jennifer at a van nuys facility for abuse victims. the multi-agency team was composed of detective fontes, department of children and family services (dcfs) social workers, and detectives castillo and peraza, who specialize in interviewing children. detective fontes had engaged the assistance of detectives castillo and peraza, who had in turn reached out to dcfs, based on information suggesting banks continued to visit the family home after the shooting, potentially placing the children there at risk. for example, police found 8 banks and jeter in a car together during a routine traffic stop approximately two months after the shooting, during which jeter to 2 police also had concerns that jeter or banks might attempt to prevent jeterchildren from speaking truthfully about the incident. the day detectives castillo and peraza interviewed jeter, dcfs had removed jetchildren from her, and jeter was extremely upset. while the video recording from the interviews reflects the detectives informing jeter that the police had no control over when jeter could regain custody of her children, detective peraza and jeter also spoke in the hallway briefly before the interview, and this interaction was not videotaped. at trial, the prosecution played detectinterview with jeter. in it, jeter initially tells detective peraza that banks shot thompson, but that jeter herself had not seen it. later in the video, jeter states that she did witness the shooting, that she asked banks to stop shooting, to which ran away alone, banks told her, leave me alone before i shoot jeter states she heard thompson say, twice, and that she believes thompson was shot in the side. c. jeter testimony regarding her prior inconsistent statements when asked about these prior inconsistent statements at trial, jeter explained that she only identified banks in the photo 2 testimony regarding this traffic stop is also the subject of one the testimony in additional detail in addressing that argument below. 9 array detective fontes showeof the detectives mentioned the custody of her children. she further testified that police present at the van nuys interview had suggested they could help her regain custody of her children if she implicated banks, and that she therefore did so falsely during that interview. at trial, detective peraza denied making any such promises to jeter, including during their interaction in the hallway that was not videotaped. c. approximately 4:00 p.m. the day of the shooting, crashed into a metal fence at the northwest corner of 92nd street and broadway. when police arrived on the scene, thompson was still alive in the front seat. he had gunshot wounds to his right arm and leg. they asked whether thompson knew who had shot him, and he nodded his head indicating, but when asked, he said only thompson was transported to a hospital where he died from his gunshot wounds. the medical examiner testified that the absence of soot or stippling from thoested that the shots were fired from a distance of more than three feet. testing of the bullet nine-millimeter luger ammunition. police found no weapons, ammunition, or casings gn that a bullet had struck the car. d. forensic evidence near the family home the day after the shooting, police recovered a single spent shell casing of a nine-millimeter bullet from behind the residence. they found no weapons or other forensic evidence in 10 the driveway area or perimeter of the property. a series of blood on west 92nd street. the police never recovered the gun used in the shooting. e. s threatening text messages and related 911 call the day after the shooting the day after the shooting, banks sent jeter a series of threatening text messages, stating: across the street. m just waiting on the right time to get everybody since it fuck me do you hate me? whats going to happen? m images of these text messages were admitted into evidence. that evening, in response to these messages, jeter called 911, though jeterand sister spoke with the 911 operator who answered. the prosecution played a recording of the 911 call. on the recording, sister first asked the operator for help because a man said he was watching the family from across the street and threatened to kill them all. sister described the suspect as a 35-year-old black man, but interrupted her description cousin then took over speaking with the operator.3 when police responded to the 911 call at the family residence later that night, they found jeter, cousin and sister, and about seven children in the family home. jeter told police she was afraid banks was going to shoot up the place and kill her family. 3 tatements to the 911 operator are the subject of one of them in more detail in discussing that argument below. 11 jeter volunteered that there had been a lot of shootings in the area, and she did not know what would happen if she went outside, since her ex-boyfriend was watching her from across the street. when, in response, one officer asked jeter ooting, jeter indicated she did not know anything. ii. defense case banks presented no evidence in his own defense. rather, his counsel argued that there was no eyewitness testimony regarding who shot thompson, and that the remaining circumstantial evidence was insufficient to support a conviction. he discredited jeters of banks as the shooter, characterizing jeter ,ny inconsistent statements. in both his closing argument and cross-examination of rayveon, defense counsel also attempted to establish that rayveon could not have seen the shooting, given his location at the time he heard the shots. defense counsel argued that rayveonwas also internally inconsistent and inconsistent with other rayveonof banks jumping onto fathertestified to the father having left by that point. as to the criminal threat charges, defense counsel argued that text messages did not specifically refer to the shooting, and were instead consistent with a tumultuous, intense relationship. iii. jury verdict during deliberations, the jury requested a readback of rayveon testimony. thereafter, the jury found banks guilty of both charges, found the murder to be in the second degree, and found all special allegations true. banks filed a timely notice of appeal. 12 discussion i. prosecutorial misconduct prosecution handled officer brandon greiner regarding the traffic stop of banks and jeter approximately two months after the shooting, during which police found a .380-caliber gun under as discussed below, however, banks forfeited this argument by failing to raise in the trial court any allegation of prosecutorial misconduct. indeed, although, on appeal, banks bases his theory of misconduct on prejudice from officer references to banks being a felon suspected of additional uncharged crimes, banks never objected to these references below. a. relevant evidentiary objections below rather, during a side bar before officer greiner testified, banks objected that testimony about the gun found as a result of the traffic stop would be unduly prejudicial and was inadmissible under evidence code section 352. the prosecution responded that the evidence was relevant to jetertruthfulness, because it supported bias that might explain why she recanted her initial statements identifying banks as the shooteri.e., that she was either scared of banks or loyal to him, and thus unwilling to inculpate himand because it impeached her earlier testimony that she did not see banks with a gun on the night of the traffic stop. to prevent any improper inference that the gun found in the car was the murder weapon, the prosecution agreed to stipulate that the gun in the car was not used to kill thompson. the parties entered into such a stipulation, and officer greiner testified regarding the traffic stop. 13 open-ended, the prosecution did not ask officer greiner any questions that required the officer to reveal s criminal history or police suspicions of other misconduct. nevertheless, in the course of officer grein he noted that the traffic stop involved a referred to banks being booked on charges of being a felon in possession of a firearm.4 officer greiner did not defense counsel did not object to these references, and did not raise any concerns regarding the prosecutorial misconduct. 4 specifically, the prosecution asked officer greiner, tell the court and the jury about [the relevant traffic] to which officer we received a radio call of possible adw suspect as well as suspect may be also involved with a homicidethe officer described finding and recovering the .380-officer greiner asked, officer upthe detectives had asked us if we could take the subject down to 77 station to be booked for felon in possession of a firearmofficer greiner later confirmed following initial inability to recall the names and locations of all occupants in the car on cross-examination, the prosecution asked during redirect examination whether officer officer greiner stated, i prepared a report for the felon in possession of a firearm the report did not include the names of the occupants, though officer greiner was later able to recall their names. 14 b. s argument a prosecutor engages in misconduct that violates the federal that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. people v. alvarado (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1577, 15831584 (alvarado)[c]onduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury. (people v. espinoza (1992) 3 cal.4th 806, 820, quoting people v. haskett (1982) 30 cal.3d 841, 866.) traffic stop evidence that appellant was suspeaccording to banks, the jeter with officer testimony wbecause the prosecution must have known officer greiner could not establish jeter was aware of the gun in the car, let alone that banks may have possessed it. banks argues that this constitutes misconduct, as it involves the prosecution making intentionally false representations to the court as a means of getting before the jury prejudicial evide order bifurcating the prior conviction phase of the trial. c. forfeiture [t]he general rule [is] that a defendant cannot complain on appeal of misconduct by a prosecutor at trial unless in a timely fashionand on the same groundhe made an assignment of misconduct and requested that the jury be admonished to disregard 15 the impropriety. people v. ashmus (1991) 54 cal.3d 932, 976 (ashmus).) a limiting instruction or admonition could have addressed any of the issues banks now raises, and banks does not argue otherwise. (see people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 124125 (valdez) [reference to state prison custody, implying instruction would not have mitigated any possible prejudice to people v. pitts (1990) 223 cal.app.3d 606, 692-693 [jury is presumed to follow a curative admonition absent exceptional the forfeiture rule is particularly important in the context of prosecutorial misconduct allegations, because asked to justify the [conduct], a reviewing court is rarely able to people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 481.) here, for example, the record does not speak to whether the prosecutor warned officer greiner not to mention or why officer greiner chose to reference the ssion details, when such questions. had banks timely raised the issue of prosecutorial misconduct, the court could have conducted an appropriate inquiry, potentially allowing it to resolve the issue of bad faith on the part of the prosecutor. (see, e.g., people v. batts (2003) 30 cal.4th 660, 675.) because banks did not make such a timely and specific objection or request an admonition, his prosecutorial misconduct argument is forfeited. (ashmus, supra, 54 cal.3d at p. 976; people v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345, 374 (silva) to have the trial court admonish the jury to disregard the question. because such an admonition would have cured any harm, the failure to request an admonition renders the prosecutorial 16 that his successful motion to bifurcate the trial on the recidivist allegations serves as a surrogate for raising the prosecutorial misconduct issue below and prevents forfeiture. such a motion is hardly tantamount to an objection the prosecutorial misconduct complaint banks raises on appeal. (ashmus, supra, 54 cal.3d at p. 976.) for this same reason, b officer testimony at trial did not prevent forfeiture of his prosecutorial misconduct challenge. indeed, that objection is inapposite for the additional reason that it presented an entirely different evidentiary issue than the one on which banks bases his misconduct argument. namely, at trial, banks objected regarding the gun as being unduly prejudicial; on appeal, he questions the motives of the prosecutor based on the relevance of the gun to impeaching jeter and the prejudice from comments regarding a possible prior felony conviction. t lacks merit. first, the titute misconduct. the portions of officer which banks takes issue were not directly responsive to any of the hing in the record suggests the prosecutor knewlet alone intendedthat officer greiner would offer these additional details. (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1039 responsive answer cannot be the basis of a valdez, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 125 [not misconduct for prosecutor to ask how earlier interview was conducted, and witness responded with inadmissible testimony on interview location].) nor do we view the explanation as to how officer but rather a conceivably meritorious argument put forth by an advocate. (see alvarado, 17 supra, 141 cal.app.4th at p. 1584.) the fact that jeter was with banks in a car containing a gun that jeter knew banks had a gun that night, and taken together with other evidence in the recordincluding text messages in which banks threatens jeter and her family the day after the shootingthat she might fear him and have reasons to recant otherwise truthful testimony inculpating him. (see evid. code,  780 [impeachment evidence]; id., subd. (f) [bias interest or other motive]; id., subd. (i) any fact .) the prosecutor did not represent that officer ablish jeter had seen [thus] no indication the prosecutor purposely elicited the [complained of] responses inquiry. (valdez, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 125.) second, we reject banks prejudice arguments that the suto infer that banks had a propensity to commit crimes and did commit the this argument exaggerates the impact of this testimony in light of the totality of other evidence at trial. that banks may have possessed a gun the parties stipulated was not the murder weapon is not so the entirety of the proceedingsparticularly given that the jury saw texts in which banks implies he had a gun. (see silva, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 374 [trial not fundamentally unfair based on s improper question regarding the circumstances of prior offense where other evidence referenced the offense].) and even assuming the jury understood officer general references to banks being 18 are not such overwhelming force that it would have caused a reasonable juror to . . . blind[] jurors (see people v. quartermain (1997) 16 cal.4th 600, 627 [evidence regarding prior conspiracy to commit murder offered for limited purpose of establishing intent to commit murder of different individual many years later did not render trial fundamentally unfair].) indeed, the jury had already heard more detailed evidence regarding other, arguably much more inflammatory prior uncharged actsthat banks had threatened to push his own child into a busy streetand, in that context, been instructed regarding the limited relevance of such prior uncharged acts as well. ii. hearsay arguments banks next argues statements in the 911 call recording constituted inadmissible double hearsay, and that the trial court erred in admitting it. although we generally review evidentiary rulings for an abuse of discretion (see people v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 132), we forego such a review here, because any erroneous admission of the challenged portion of the 911 call was harmless. a. 911 call recording in the recording of the 911 call, cousin tells the 911 operator that locked both doors. the cousin tells the 911 operator that banks had made a threatening call to jeter threatened he was texting jeter. cousin further stated, it past him on account of what happened yesterday. when the 911 operator asked, cousin explained, um, someone got shot down the street, or up the street, 19 but the 911 operator then know icousin . she b. harmless error the court ection to statements in the 911 call on the grounds that the statements were ssection evidence code section 1241. we need not delve into a multi-level hearsay in order for the admission of statements in the 911 call to provide a basis for reversal, it excluding this evidence would have produced a more favorable verdict for banks. (see people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson).) it was not. according to banks, statement that banks consciousness of guilt regarding thus prejudicial under the watson standard. but other evidence s consciousness of guilt in this same indirect way. the right time to get everybody since it fucand no evidence suggested what might refer to, other than the shooting the day before. (italics added.) when the officers responded to the 911 call, jeter told them she was afraid banks would shoot her and her family, when a day earlieron the day thompson was killedbanks was at her . and jeter told police during an interview that banks told her, although, in her trial testimony, jeter denied having made these statements, the jury could have reasonably chosen to believe 20 her earlier statements over her blanket denial at trial. of course, none of this evidenceincluding statements during the 911 callconclusively establishes consciousness of guilt. but it sufficiently supports that, considering the record as a whole, it is no more than abstract possibility at best that the 911 call swayed the jury to believe banks exhibited consciousness of guilt. (people v. wilkins (2013) 56 cal.4th 333, 351.) banks further argues that references to banks having a gun and his possible involvement in the shooting the day before had the verdict, particularly when considered against a backdrop of what banks describes as an otherwise weak, circumstantial case against him. (college hospital inc. v. superior court (1994) 8 cal.4th 704, 715 (college hospital).) jeter already support that he had a gun and reflect banks making violent threats. as for references to the shooting the day before, she clarified during the 911 call that she did not know whether banks was involved. thus, any support the 911 call offered for facts already supported by other, arguably more persuasive, evidence is not reasonably likely to have led to a different outcome. iii. ineffective assistance banks argues he was denied effective assistance when his counsel failed to object to what banks characterizes as detective fontes witness credibility, as well as irrelevant testimony about what facts led [detective fontes] to conclude banks committed the we disagree. 21 a. detective mony the prosecution asked detective fontes to describe the steps he took in the course of his investigation. he explained how he initially cam and why he detective fontes generally defined as through the process of identifying via anything from video surveillance to actual eyewitnesses and identified and placed that person at [the] scene as part of his explanation for how the investigation led to banks, detective fontes gave an opinion on mother, sister, and jetercredibility in their police interviews, saying, would say half of the interview with each was forthcoming and the other half detective fontes noted that the perceived evasiveness arose when he asked mother, sister, or jeter to provide details about the shooting, even after each had generally indicated banks was involved. detective fontes explained that he based this assessment the prosecutor ultimately asked, mr. to which detective fontes later, the prosecution asked detective fontes to comment on how jeters testimony at trial compared to her responses during earlier police interviews, suggesting it was not credible. b. strickland analysis to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must demonstrate: objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional ngs, the result would have been more favorable to the defendant. (strickland v. washington 22 (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687 (strickland).) on appeal, there is a strong falls within the wide range of adequate professional assistance. (people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, 954.) in applying the first prong of this doctrine to affirmatively show that the [failure to object] involved a critical issue, and that the omissions cannot be explained on the basis of people v. floyd (1970) 1 cal.3d 694, 709 (floyd).) stricklandsecond prong requires a defendant prove prejudice as a demonstrable reality, not merely by speculats actions or omissions. (see people v. williams (1988) 44 cal.3d 883, 937.) 1. op that detective fontes defined suspect in a manner implying guilt, and then testified banks was a suspect. even if the jurors made the connection between these two portions of detective necessary to imply an opinion of guilt, othing in [detective s] testimony . . . indicated that [he] was offering an opinion for direct jury consideration on the issue of credibility (see people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 546-547 (stitely).) rather, he did so in the course of the general timeline and evolution of which were relevant at trial in the manner discussed below. (id. at p. 546.) in this context, [n]understood detective fontes as offering testimony as to whether banks was guilty of the crimes charged. (id. at pp. 546547.) 23 2. opinions on veracity of mother, sister, and jeter (people v. melton (1988) 44 cal.3d 713, 744.) but detective comments regarding jeter supported a key defense theme: that jetermany pretrial statements inculpating banks were not credible. in closing arguments, for example, defense counsel said thmatter what, [jeter] credible. not reliable. . . . [o]nce you find her not credible or question what she said, anything she said to detectives, anything she said to [] and [mother], it vitiates everyhe record thus supports that defense counsel may have had a tactical basis for declining to object. (see floyd, supra, 1 cal.3d at p. 709.) with respect to detective impressions of and demeanor in police interviews, an testimony with respect to whether he believes a witnessstatements may be admitted to (people v. brown (2001) 96 cal.app.4th supp. 1, 33.) detective ng how and why he continued to investigate bin the shooting, based in part on his assessment of witness statements as the investigation progressed, assisted the jury in assessing jeterclaims at trial that the police had tried to steer the investigation towards banks by pressuring jeter to inculpate him. (see stitely, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 546547 [detective properly testified about reasons for investigative actions, including moreover, even if these comments did cause the jury to question and credibility more than the jury would have done, based own evaluation of the 24 videotaped police interviews and comparison with trial testimony, there is not a this led to a less favorable outcome for banks. (college hospital, supra, 8 cal.4th at p. 715.) neither credibility, nor case. (see floyd, supra, 1 cal.3d at p. 709.) and the effect of detective ts must be measured in light of the prosecutionan eyewitness to the murder, as well as other circumstantial evidence connecting banks to the shooting. s trial counsel did not provide him ineffective assistance of counsel in declining to object to the portions of detective iv. manslaughter instruction banks next argues the trial court denied appellant due process when it declined to issue an instruction on heat of passion voluntary manslaughter under section 192, subdivision (a). we review this issue de novo. (people v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263, 293.) w the evidentiary support for [the lesser] [citation] and should resolve doubts as to the sufficiency of the evidence to warrant instructions (people v. wright (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 1461, 1483 (wright).) whether a defendant acted in the heat of passion in causing the death of another presents a subjective question, but the circumstances giving rise to the heat of passion are assessed objectively. (people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 12511253.) this means that, in order to establish heat of passion voluntary manslaughter, the evidence must support that the passion under which the defendant acted would naturally be aroused in the 25 mind of an ordinarily reasonable person under the given facts and (id. at p. 1252, quoting people v. logan (1917) 175 cal. 45, 49.) law of provocation focuse ther s emotional out not on [the] sonable s shoes would have responded or acted as violently as (wright, supra, 242 cal.app.4th at pp. 14811482, italics omitted.) banks argues that the evidence reflects a trajectory of building jealousy that culminated on the day of the murder. banks viewed thompson as a rival for jeter and thompson had physically beaten banks in connection with this perceived rivalry once in the past. then banks found thompson at the family home less than two weeks after jeter had broken up with banks. although thompson initially removed himself from the situation, and [jeter][][jeter] to diffuse the situation by telling thompsonno . . . . that. . . . my is sufficient provocation to arouse the passions of an ordinary person in the circumstances. it is not. the evidence banks identifies, even viewed in the light most people v. hudgins (1967) 252 cal.app.2d 174, 181.) courts have required significantly greater provocation to justify a voluntary manslaughter instruction in connection with perceived or actual infidelity, including in the cases on which banks relies. he cites people v. bridgehouse (1956) 47 cal.2d 406, 409, for example, in which the defendant shot his s lover after discovering him at home in the presence of his 26 young child in violation of a restraining order. the court reduced s conviction to voluntary manslaughter on the s wife was having an affair which had extended over a considerable period of time with the deceased; that she would neither approve of the defendant commencing an action for divorce nor would she forego seeing [her lover], the victim of the crime; [and] that the sight of the victim in his mother-in-s home was a great shock to the defendant who had not expected to see him (id. at p. 413.) banks also cites people v. berry (1976) 18 cal.3d 509, 513, in which s wife told him that she was having an affair with another man and spent two (ibid.) here, by contrast, there is no evidence that jeter had ever been romantically involved with or even interested in thompson, nor any basis on which banks could have reasonably believed that thompson and jeter were seeing each other. moreover, even if the evidence did support an actual or perceived romantic involvement, the fact that jeter was seeing another maneven a man who had beaten banks at least a year earlierwould not be sufficient for objectively reasonable provocation. (see people v. hyde (1985) 166 cal.app.3d 463, 473 (hydegirlfriend] after she broke up with [defendant] constitutes [does] not const (people v. lujan (2001) 92 cal.app.4th 1389, 1414, quoting hyde, supra, 166 cal.app.3d at p. 473.) the cases banks cites in which infidelity played a role in objectively reasonable provocation also involved other, extreme circumstances. (see e.g., ibid. [victim engaged in a two-week pattern of sexually arousing the defendant husband and taunting him into jealous rages over 27 her love for another man]; people v. borchers (1958) 50 cal.2d 321, 328329 [after a long period of admitted infidelity, on the night of victims death, victim repeatedly urged that defendant shoot her and the child the defendant sought to adopt and taunted him by calling him ].) nor is the fact that thompson attempted to interject into banks and jeterconversation, or may not have attempted to hide his presence at the family home, akin to thompson attempting to taunt or humiliate banks in any way. the trial court correctly chose not to instruct the jury on heat of passion voluntary manslaughter. v. senate bill no. 620 remand is required for resentencing in light of senate bill no. 620. (stats. 2017, ch. 682.) senate bill no. 620 took effect on january 1, 2018, after banks was sentenced and applies retroactively to cases not yet final on that date. (people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, 424-425 (mcdaniels).) it vests sentencing courts with discretion to strike or dismiss firearm enhancements, such as the firearm enhancement imposed here, in the interest of justice. (see  12022.53, subd. (h).) the trial court specifically noted the firearm en and there is nothing in the record that clearly shows the trial court would not reduce sentence if given the opportunity. (see mcdaniels, supra, 22 cal.app.5th at pp. 427-428.) remand to permit the trial court the opportunity to exercise its discretion and strike the firearm enhancement is therefore appropriate. 28 disposition the conviction is affirmed. the matter is remanded to the trial court for it to consider the striking of the firearm enhancement in view of senate bill no. 620. if the court strikes the enhancement, it shall reduce the sentence accordingly, amend the abstract of judgment, and forward the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur: johnson, j. bendix, j. 