filed 6/3/19 p. v. armijo ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ramon armijo, defendant and appellant. b286698 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta132994) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura r. walton, judge. affirmed. james koester, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and analee j. brodie, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________ 2 ramon armijo appeals from the judgment entered after the trial court denied motion to replace his court-appointed attorney pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsdenargued the trial court erred in failing to conduct a hearing on his marsden motions following his written requests to the court. (people v. armijo (2017) 10 cal.app.5th 1171, 1173 (armijo i).) we agreed, conditionally reversed the judgment, and remanded with marsden motion. (id. at pp. 1183-1184.) on remand, the trial court conducted a marsden hearing and concluded armijo was not entitled to replace his attorney because he did not meet his burden to show the attorney provided inadequate representation or there was an irreconcilable conflict between armijo and his attorney. armijo contends the trial court erred in denying his marsden motion because he was embroiled in an irreconcilable conflict with his attorney. we affirm. factual and procedural background a. pretrial proceedings 1. the information this case arises out of an april 11, 2014 incident in which the information charged armijo with attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664).1 the information alleged armijo personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon in the commission of the offense ( 12022, 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 subd. (b)(2)).2 the information also alleged armijo had suffered one prior conviction for a violent or serious felony within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12) and a serious felony within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1). armijo pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. 2. continuances and new counsel deputy public defender delia metoyer represented armijo from september 4, 2014 through january 13, 2015, including at his preliminary hearing, arraignment, and nine pretrial conferences. deputy public defender diana alexander represented armijo for the first time at a pretrial conference on january 22, 2015. at that hearing, the trial court granted to march 9, 2015 on the basis she had recently been assigned to represent armijo. armijo 2 although the parties state in their briefs armijo was charged with use of a deadly or dangerous weapon under section 12022, subdivision (b)(2), the enhancement should have been charged under secor attempted carjacking. (see  12022, subd. (b)(2) [if a defendant who personally uses a deadly or dangerous weapon has been convicted of carjacking or attempted carjacking, the additional term shall be in the state prison for one, two, or three yearsnegotiated plea agreement, we need not address whether armijo was charged under the appropriate subdivision. 4 sent a letter to the court after that hearing requesting a new attorney and expressing concern about the continuance. deputy public defender francine logan was subsequently assigned to represent armijo, and first appeared on his behalf at the march 9, 2015 pretrial hearing. logan moved to continue the case to april 9, 2015, explaining she had just been assigned to the additional time . . 9, 2015, at the request of another deputy public defender standing in for logan, the trial court continued the hearing to april 15, 2015. on april 15, 2015 at the request of a different deputy public defender standing in for logan, the court granted a further continuance to april 21, 2015. 3. in a letter dated april 16, 2015, armijo expressed concerns absences at the april 9 and april 15 pretrial conferences and noted logan had failed to visit him at the county jail or accept his collect phone calls. armijo also complained he had been represented by three different public defenders and raised the reasons, has not been able to adequately represent me, and for these reasons i am requesting that you assign my case to a state-5 appointed april 24, 2015.3 4. filing of an amended information on april 21, 2015 logan represented armijo at a pretrial conference, at which the trial court set a hearing for may 7, 2015 the charges pursuant to section 995. because armijo did not appear for the may 7 hearing, the trial court continued the hearing to may 12. on may 12 logan trial court denied. on june 3, 2015 the people filed an amended information to add the special allegation armijo inflicted great bodily injury in the commission of the offense. ( 12022.7, subd. (a).) the amended information was otherwise identical to the original information. armijo pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. b. the negotiated plea and sentence logan represented armijo at the june 23, 2015 hearing, at which armijo pleaded no contest to attempted murder and admitted the great bodily injury and prior strike allegations. in accordance with the negotiated plea agreement, the trial court sentenced armijo to an aggregate term of 13 years, consisting of the lower term for attempted murder of five years, doubled under the three strikes law, plus three years for the great bodily injury 3 according to the trial court, the letter was file-stamped and placed in the file, but was never shown to the judge. 6 allegation. the trial court dismissed the remaining special allegations. c. armijo filed a timely notice of appeal in which he stated he intended to challenge the validity of the plea. the trial court 4 (armijo i, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. 1178.) in armijo i, we concluded the trial court erred in failing to hold a marsden requesting replacement of logan, but the marsden request in his first letter as to metoyer he wanted in the first lettera new lawyerid. at p. 1180.) we explained the trial court denied armijo lain and if possible to document the basis of his contention [beyond the] bare (id. at pp. 1179-1180.) we remanded for the trial court to hold a marsden hearing. (armijo i, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. 1184.) we instructed the marsden motion, the court should appoint new counsel to assist armijo in filing a motion to 4 in his request for a certificate of probable cause, armijo argued the trial court denied him an opportunity to explain the reasons for his request for new counsel, citing to marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118. he referred to his two letters to the court, and including that she failed to discuss the motion to dismiss with him, improperly induced him to accept the offer of a negotiated pleato clearly and thoroughly explain [the] guilty 7 withdraw his plea or making any other motions the new attorney deemed appropriate. (id. at pp. 1183-1184.) we further instructed the trial court to reinstate the judgment if: (1) the marsden motion, but substitute counsel declined to file a motion to withdraw the plea or other appropriate motion, or the court denied any such motion. (id. at p. 1184.) d. the marsden hearing on remand on august 14, 2017 the trial court held a marsden hearing, at which it provided armijo an opportunity to discuss his tation during the pendency of his case.5 logan and armijo were present for the hearing. 1. information to be amended to add the special allegation he inflicted great bodily injury in the commission of the offense. armijo also raised that logan missed a court date and requested several continuances of court dates. 5 armijo also read into the record two letters he sent to logan on july 2 and july 8, 2015, asking for her assistance in withdrawing his plea and explaining the grounds for the proposed motion. the trimarsden pendency of the case. 8 armijo expressed concern logan sought several continuances of the trial date to enhance a video of the incident, which armijo stated the prosecutor had conceded was video used at trial for fear it would help the prosecution, but logan nevertheless hired an expert to enhance it. armijo stated that on june 23, 2015 logan informed him the enhanced armijo phasized the possibility [armijo] was facing of a negotiated plea under which he would be sentenced to 13 years in prison. according to armijo, logan never suggested a continuance so he con informed armijo stated logan never offered to show the video to him. he added that after the case had been pending for 14 months, he . because of 13 years, judge asked [him] if [he] understood the rights [he] was giving peration in the prosecution charging armijo with the three- no contest. 9 armijo also argued logan failed to investigate whether she could have his prior conviction of assault with a deadly weapon, in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1), reduced to a misdemeanor, which would have avoided the doubling of his sentence under the three strikes law. he also stated he would not have agreed to pay the restitution amount of $4,900 that was part of the plea agreement ed the ability to pay that amount.6 the trial court read into the record excerpts from the transcript of the plea agreement, in which armijo stated he understood the court would impose a restitution fine, and he may be required to pay restitution to the victim. 2. approximately one year before she was appointed as his counsel (starting in march 2015), and by that time several attorneys had represented him. she understood armijo was upset because of the delay, and she began working on his case. logan explained she had missed two court appearances because she had sustained a concussion in a car accident. she argued the motion to dismiss under section 995, which the trial court denied. based on both drunk during the incident, logan hired an expert to explore a willful intoxication defense to the attempted first degree 6 at the hearing neither the trial court nor logan had information, nor do we, whether the $4,900 was an award of victim restitution or a restitution fine imposed under section 1202.4, subdivision (b)(1). 10 murder charge. but the expert was not able to provide a favorable opinion, so logan decided not to call him as a witness at trial. logan sent an investigator to take photographs of the scene of the incident, then reviewed the photographs with armijo and believed based on these statements armijo wonderful self-case to present at trial. in response, logan had her investigator re-interview the witnesses, but they did not change their statements about the incident. in addition, after logan had an expert enhance the video, logan concluded based on her review of the enhanced video that it did not support a self-gan recognized she did not have to turn over the enhanced video to the prosecution. armijo did not ask to see the video, but logan described its contents to him. logan explained she played no role in the people filing an amended information against armijo, and stated she could not logan met with armijo on june 15, 17, and 23, 2015. logan represented she told armijo on june 15 the enhanced video was unfavorable. at that time armijo asked her to negotiate a plea offer for a determinate sentence. logan spoke with the prosecutor about an offer that day. she met with armijo again on june 17, but the prosecutor did not yet have approval to make an offer. on june 23 the people offered a negotiated plea with a 13-year prison sentence. 11 on june 23 logan communicated the offer to armijo, explained she was ready for trial if he did not want to accept the was not going to use the video at trial. armijo did not tell logan he needed more time to think about the offer; if he had, logan would have asked the mijo pleaded no contest on june 23, 2015 in accordance with the agreement. 3. armijo denied he ever asked logan for a determinate offer. however, he confirmed he never requested that logan show him the enhanced video. 4. the trial cmarsden motion marsden motion, finding brief continuances because logan was recovering from a concussion, but in the three months since she was appointed as consulting with an expert on intoxication, having her investigator take photographs of the scene, discussing the photographs with armijo, and having an expert enhance the video of the incident to -defense. the court added the events,the court also found logan discussed the enhanced video with armijo and explained she was not going to use it at trial because it was not useful for his defense. 12 for a determinate offer credible in that the trial was continued from june 15 to june 17, and then to june 23, which is when the people made their offer of a negotiated plea. with respect to not request additional time to consider the plea offer, and that logan stated she would have asked for more time if armijo had requested it. []tedhis acceptance of thconcluded armijo had not met his burden to demonstrate inadequate representation or an irreconcilable conflict with logan during the period she represented him. the trial court reinstated the judgment and sentence. armijo timely appealed. discussion a. governing law on marsden motions counsel in their defense. [citation.] a court must appoint counsel to represent an indigent defendant. [citation.] a defendant also has a right to seek substitute counsel under marsden if the defendant can show that continued representation by present counsel would substantially impair or deny his or her (people v. knight (2015) 239 cal.app.4th 1, 5-6; accord, marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at 13 p. [o]nce the defendant clearly indicates to the trial court a request for the discharge and replacement of appointed counsel, the court must hold a hearing to allow the defendant to explain armijo i, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. 1179.) the trial cou (people v. sanchez (2011) 53 cal.4th 80, 87.) defendant has no absolute right to more than one appointed . . . a trial court is not bound to accede to a request for substitute counsel showing . . . that the right to the assistance of counsel would be substanpeople v. sanchez, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 87, quoting marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 123.) the appointed counsel is providing inadequate representation or the defendant and the attorney have become embroiled in such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective representation is (people v. myles (2012) 53 cal.4th 1181, 1207 (myles); accord, people v. zendejas (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 1098, 1108.) [or her] attorney do not by themselves constitute an myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1207 [no irreconcilable conflict where defendant claimed attorney failed to interview witnesses or investigate issues raised by defendant, but attorney explained he had discussed the investigation with defendant many times, and the attorney had pursued everything 14 he could]; people v. dickey (2005) 35 cal.4th 884, 922 [no conflict where defendant asserted counsel should have presented supporting that theory]; people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1192 [disagtrial strategy [are] essentially tactical disagreements, which do not by themselves constitutpeople v. welch (1999) 20 [a] defendant does not have the right to present a defense of his own choosing, but merely the nor does an irreconcilable conflict exist based only on a (myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. lack of trust in, or inability to get along with, an appointed attorney were sufficient to compel appointment of substitute counsel, defendants effectively would have a veto power over any appointment, and by a process of elimination could obtain appointment of their preferred attorneys, which is certainly not people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 913-courts are [not] required to grant substitution of counsel to defendants whose paranoia concerning defense counsel has people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, insufficient where atthat caused defendant to distrust him].) that an irreconcilable conflict exists if the defendant has not made a sustained good faith effort to work out any disagreements (myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1207; see people v. smith (2003) 30 15 defense counsel did anything to cause any breakdown in their people v. barnett (1998) 17 cal.4th 1044, 1086 [no marsden motion where appointment].) the denial of a marsden motion is reviewed on appeal for an abuse of discretion. (people v. rices (2017) 4 cal.5th 49, 69; myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1207; people v. loya (2016) 1 the court does not abuse its discretion in denying a marsden motion that a failure to replace counsel would substantially impair the s right to assistance of counsel.myles, at p. 1207; accord, people v. streeter (2012) 54 cal.4th 205, 230; loya, at p. 944.) b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying marsden motion armijo concedes logan provided adequate representation,7 but contends the trial court erred in denying his marsden motion deteriorated prior to his entering into the he was unable to work cooperatively with his attorney. armijo asserts his irreconcilable conflict with logan stemmed from the 7 armijo states [was] is prior conviction, which he admitted as part of the negotiated plea, was properly characterized as a strike offense. however, armijo fails to present any evidence his prior conviction did not constitute a strike under the three strikes law, or that his attorneys did not investigate the nature of the offense. 16 numerous delays during the 14 months leading to his plea; failure to appear for two court appearances; and her failure to visit him at the jail or accept his collect phone calls. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding logan and armijo were not embroiled in an irreconcilable conflict. the incident and reviewed photographs of the scene with him. in response to assertion he acted in self-defense, logan hired an expert to enhance a video of the incident and had her investigator re-interview the witnesses. when the video turned out to be unfavorable, logan described its contents to armijo. according to logan, at their june 15, 2015 meeting, based on the revelation the video proved to be unfavorable, armijo asked logan to negotiate a plea for a determinate sentence. logan the same day by requesting the prosecutor make an offer of a determinate sentence. logan met with armijo two days later, but the prosecutor had not yet made an offer. on june 23, 2015, after the prosecutor offered a negotiated plea with a 13-year prison sentence, logan discussed with armijo the details of the offer, that she was ready for trial, and what would happen at trial if he did not accept the offer. according to logan, she explained to armijo she would not use the enhanced continuances in his case caused his relationship to deteriorate, as the trial court found, the delays occurred before logan 17 commenced her representation, and she acted diligently in the three months in which she represented him. the trial court granted the first continuance to enable logan to review the april 9 and april 15 court dates were justified by her medical condition after a car accident. during her brief representation, logan met with armijo multiple times, hired two experts, had her investigator take photographs and re-interview witnesses, and prepared for trial. return his phone calls does not amount to an irreconcilable conflict where there is evidence logan communicated meaningfully with him and otherwise provided adequate representation. (myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. people v. hart (1999) 20 concluded that trial counsel was prepared for trial and therefore people v. crandell (1988) 46 cal.3d 833, 859 [lack of communication during a period of several weeks after three consultations did not establish inadequate representation], disapproved on another ground in people v. crayton (2002) 28 cal.4th 346, 364-365.) although armijo disputes whether he and logan meaningfully discussed the incident or the plea, or that logan t for an offer of a determinate sentence once he learned about the question between defendant and counsel at the hearing, the court people v. rices, 18 supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 69; accord, myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1206 opportunity to relate specific examples of his grievances against logan, the trial court carefully inquired into his concerns, and logan provided point-by- in his reply brief armijo relies on daniels v. woodford (9th cir. 2005) 428 f.3d 1181 to support his contention his lack of trust in logan substantially impaired his right to counsel. daniels is distinguishable because the record there was rife with repeated instances in which many of the seven attorneys who represented defendant jackson daniels in a capital case betrayed his trust. (id. at pp. 1187-1188.) these circumstances included case in which a deputy public defender negotiated a plea agreement at the same time he interviewed with the district defender to advise the court the negotiated sentence included the option to seek treatment, rather than immediate incarceration. (id. at p. 1197.) attorney was removed because the prosecutor intended to call conflict nine months after assuming representation, the trial court appointed a former prosecutor with no criminal defense experience to represent daniels with only three months to prepare for trial. (id. at p. 1197.) the court concluded that by the time of trial, 19 of counsel. (id. at pp. 1191, 1197.) in light of the record of meaningful communication between to the negotiated plea agreement, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying marsden motion. (people v. rices, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 69; myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1207.) disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. feuer, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. segal, j. 