filed 11/25/19 p. v. renteria ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and appellant, v. sergio jose renteria, defendant and respondent. b287918 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba453118) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, sam ohta, judge. reversed. jackie lacey, district attorney of los angeles county, phyllis c. asayama and cassandra thorp, deputy district attorneys, for plaintiff and appellant. ricardo d. garcia, los angeles county public defender, albert j. menaster and dylan ford, deputy public defenders, for defendant and respondent. 2 i. introduction defendant sergio renteria pleaded no contest in department 123 of the los angeles county superior court to one count of residential burglary and was placed on probation. one condition of that probation required renteria to pay restitution for whatever losses the victim suffered. because the property stolen during the burglary was recovered, and any other potential sentencing, the court set a restitution setting hearing for approximately six weeks after sentencing to determine the amount, if any, of losses not yet restituted. renteria failed to appear at the restitution setting hearing, as well as several subsequent hearings. violations of his probation, the court imposed a sentence of four years in state prison, but suspended its execution and reinstated probation to give renteria one final chance. a few months later, while he was still on probation, renteria pleaded guilty to another burglary charge, this time in department 50 of the los angeles county superior court. the judicial officer in department 50 sentenced renteria to two years in state prison for the burglary offense and terminated probation on the residential burglary conviction. thereafter, a restitution setting hearing took place in department 123. that court found it no longer had jurisdiction to modify its prior restitution order to specify the amount owed to the victim because restitution was a term of probation, and department 50 had terminated that probation. 3 jurisdiction to modify the restitution order. we hold renteria is estopped from contesting jurisdiction given his probation violations and failures to appear, and reverse. ii. background a. proceedings in department 123 on march 1, 2017, in department 123, renteria pleaded no contest to one count of residential burglary, a felony in violation of penal code section 459.1 the record contains no information regarding the offense conduct, or what property was taken by defendant. the trial court suspended imposition of sentence and placed renteria on probation for three years. while explaining to renteria the fines that would be imposed, the court asked the prosecutor if there was any damage the property was recovered, but can we just have a setting in a possible there may be loss to the victim as a result of your act suspended imposition of sentence, placed defendant on probation, and announced the conditions of probation. with regard to 1 all further statutory references, unless otherwise noted, are to the penal code. 4 april 11, 2017, for a progress report. we will set that date as a . . defendant placed on formal probation for a period of 003 years under the following terms and conditions: [] . . . [] make restitution to victim pursuant to pc section 1202.4(f) in an amount to be determined at hearing set as part of his probation, renteria was ordered to participate in, and reside in housing provided by, the office of diversion and reentry (odr) program. he was released to an odr representative, but left the housing and abandoned the program a short while later.2 renteria failed to appear at the restitution setting hearing on april 11, 2017. the court revoked recalled the bench warrant on may 4, 2017, when renteria was present before the court in custody. on may 17, 2017, renteria appeared before the court again. the court revoked and reinstated probation with all the original terms and conditions, but extended the term of probation. renteria was ordered to appear on june 27, 2017 for a progress report from the odr program and the probation department. 2 a later probation report stated renteria had been transported to transitional housing on march 20, 2017 and left on march 21, 2017. defense counsel told the court that renteria actually stayed at the housing for two weeks but was not properly signing in and out, which is why the records reflected him leaving after one day. regardless, it is undisputed renteria left odr housing soon after entering the program in violation of his probation. 5 on june 27, 2017, renteria again failed to appear. the court revoked probation and issued a bench warrant. renteria was taken into custody, and the court recalled the warrant on july 3, 2017 when renteria appeared in court. on july 5, 2017, renteria was present in court when the matter was called for a probation violation hearing setting, and the matter was preparation of a supplemental probation report. on july 26, 2017, renteria appeared and the matter was continued to august 16, 2017. on august 16, 2017, renteria was present in court. the years in prison but suspended execution of that sentence for the remaining period of probation, and reinstated probation. the m sending you representative. renteria then failed to appear for a third time at his next progress report hearing on september 26, 2017, and the trial court again revoked probation and issued a bench warrant. renteria was again taken into custody, and the court recalled the warrant on october 11, 2017 when renteria appeared in court. renteria thereafter remained in custody, awaiting the probation report the court had ordered. 6 b. proceedings in department 50 on october 27, 2017, renteria was present before another judicial officer in department 50, where he pleaded guilty to a new crime (a burglary). several codefendants pleaded guilty at bation or parole for any other case, your plea today could be a violation of probation or parole and could result in additional custody the judicial officer in department 50 sentenced renteria to two years in prison on the new burglary charge, and simultaneously terminated his probation in two other matters, one of which was the residential burglary case pending in department 123. department 50 did not mention the four-year sentence imposed by department 123 as to which execution had been stayed pending successful completion of probation. -term two years at the local level, credit 36, forthwith. . . . [] the following two probationary matters are terminated, ba453118 [the admission or finding of a probation violation, the minute order open court. [] court finds defendant in violation of probation. [] probation revoked [] probation modified as follows: [] probation terminated [] . . . . [] the court finds the defendant in violation of probation for failing to obey all laws . . . . [] based on the prison sentence given in case number ba462147-01 [the 7 new burglary charge in department 50], probation is ordered c. further proceedings in department 123 on december 1, 2017, department 123 continued r proceedings regarding restitution to december 15, 2017. at the december 15, 2017 hearing, the people stated the victim was seeking $5,476.04 in restitution.3 the court, summarizing the case while looking at the file, said, bation back in march of 2017. i did order the defendant to pay restitution to the victims, but no counsel took place as follows. renteria. october 27, 2017 the court terminated the probation. . . [] and probation was terminated. [] . . . [] [] . . . [] i have no jurisdiction. osecutor]: there is no jurisdiction at all. if you think that there is some jurisdiction i have to order restitution on a case in which probation has already been terminated, you can recalendar it. 3 the record does not indicate what this amount consists of or includes. 8 the people did not present any of the requested research to the trial court or seek to recalendar the matter for a further hearing. they instead filed a notice of appeal.4 iii. discussion a. standard of review generally, a restitution order is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. fortune (2005) 129 cal.app.4th 790, 794.) interpretation of a statute, a question of law is raised, which we revin re anthony m. (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 1010, 1016.) because we must interpret the interplay between several to set a specific amount of restitution, our review is de novo. while the people did not object to it no longer had jurisdiction to impose restitutionindeed, the prosecutor agreed there was no such jurisdictionfailure to object does not bar the correction of a potentially invalid restitution order on appeal. (people v. moreno (2003) 108 cal.app.4th 1, 910.) 4 renteria claims the notice of appeal is untimely because the notice was required to be filed within 60 days of the termination of his probation, as opposed to within 60 days of the ce people are appealing the december 15, 2017 order, not the termination of probation, and their appeal is therefore timely. (see cal. rules of court, rule 8.308, subd. (a).) 9 b. restitution as a preliminary matter, renteria disputes whether department 123 imposed a restitution obligation as part of his sentencing on march 1, 2017. although the minute order states restitution was imposed, renteria argues the minute order should be disregarded because the court did not explicitly state during the oral pronouncement of sentence that renteria was being ordered to pay restitution. people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1199), this principle is not a mechanical rule. (people v. smith general rule . . . when . . . the record is in conflict it will be harmonized if possible . . . minutes should prevail as against contrary statements in the ibid.) minute order. the record indicates the trial judge meant to order, and did order, renteria to pay restitution for whatever losses the victim may have suffered in an amount to be determined later. first, when explaining the conditions of probation, the court said that if there was a loss to the victim as a result of actions, the victim would be entitled to restitution from renteria. the court thereafter ordered renteria back to court on april 11, 2017 for, among other things, a restitution hearing to fix the amount of restitution to be ordered. 10 the minute order, to which renteria lodged no objection in subsequent trial court proceedings, states renteria was ordered in an amount to be determined at hearing set 04/11/17 . . . .at the hearing on december 15, 2017, the court similarly acknowledgedthat renteria had previously been ordered to pay restitution but the amount had not yet been set. der are not discordant. when imposing sentence, the court ordered renteria to pay restitution for whatever losses the victim may have suffered, to be determined on april 11, 2017, and the minute order accurately reflects the pronounced sentence. c. the constitutional and statutory scheme governing restitution as a condition of probation before addressing whether department 123 still had jurisdiction following the termination of probation to fix a particular amount of restitution, we first summarize the constitutional and statutory schemes governing the determination of that issue. 1. the constitution and proposition 9 amended article i, section 28, of the california constitution, the (cal. const., art. i,  28, subd. (b)(13)) . . . people v. runyan (2012) 54 cal.4th 849, 858.) proposition 9 amended the 11 result of criminal activity shall have the right to seek and secure restitution from the persons convicted of the crimes causing the losses they suffer. [] restitution shall be ordered from the convicted wrongdoer in every case, regardless of the sentence or const., art. i,  28, subd. (b)(13)(a)(b).) rief cite to superseded constitutional language enacted in 1982 by proposition 8, also restitution to crime victims. while proposition 9 made significant amendments to other portions of the was far more modest. the language regarding victim restitution in propositions 8 and 9 is identical, except that proposition 9 struck one phrase that had permitted courts not to order restitution when compelling and extraordinary reasons existed.5 5 unequivocal intention of the people of the state of california that all persons who suffer losses as a result of criminal activity shall have the right to restitution from the persons convicted of the crimes for losses they suffer. [] restitution shall be ordered from the convicted persons in every case, regardless of the sentence or disposition imposed, in which a crime victim suffers a loss, unless with cal. const., art. i,  28, subd. (a)(13)(a-unequivocal intention of the people of the state of california that all persons who suffer losses as a result of criminal activity shall have the right to seek and secure restitution from the persons convicted of the crimes causing the losses they suffer. [] restitution shall be ordered from the convicted wrongdoer in 12 as the stricken language does not pertain to the facts before us or ical language and the enabling statutes promulgated by the legislature to implement proposition 8. (see people v. giordano (2007) 42 cal.4th 644, 8]; hilton v. superior court (2014) 239 cal.ap(hilton) [same].) 2. applicable statutory provisions sentence on the defendant and impose the punishment people v. duff (2010) 50 cal.4th 787, 795.) except in circumstances not relevant here, section 1202.4 which a victim has suffered economic loss as a result of the make restitution to the victim . . . -ended jurisdiction (people v. waters (2015) 241 cal.app.4th 822, 827 (waters).) however, certain exceptions to this general rule exist with regard to victim restitution orders. (ibid.) loss cannot be ascertainprovision that the amount shall be determined at the direction of every case, regardless of the sentence or disposition imposed, in which a 13 retain jurisdiction over a person subject to a restitution order for purposes of imposing or modifying restitution until such time as attorney, or a court on its own motion from requesting correction, at any time, of a sentence when the sentence is invalid due to the omission of a restitution order . . where the defendant is placed on probation, section 1202.4, subdivision (m), provides that the trial court must incorporate the restitution order as one of the conditions of probation. and manner of the term of probation for purposes of measuring the timely payment of restitution obligations . . . subd. (b)(4).) subdivision (b)(5) of section 1203.3 clarifies that from modifying the dollar amount of a restitution order pursuant to subdivision (f) of section 1202.4 at any time during the term of 3. case law interpreting the statutory scheme because section 1202.46 states that a court retains jurisdiction to impose or modify restitution until such time as the losses may be determined, and to correct the omission of a whereas section 1203.3, subdivision (b)(5) permits a court to modify a restitution order during the term of the probationcessary to reconcile these competing timeframes. in doing so, they have held that when a defendant is sentenced to probation, section 1203.3 limits 14 m. (waters, supra, 241 cal.app.4th at p. 831; hilton, supra, 239 cal.app.4th at p. 776.)6 in hilton, the defendant pleaded no contest to offenses related to his driving under the influence, during which he struck a pedestrian. (239 cal.app.4th at p. 769.) the court placed the defendant on probation on the condition he pay restitution in an amount to be determined at a later restitution hearing. the court ultimately ordered $3,215 in restitution, which the defendant fully paid during his probationary term. (ibid.) meanwhile, the injured pedestrian filed a civil suit that was following the settlement, the victim filed a motion in the criminal case seeking an order imposing $886,000 in additional court granted. (id. at p. 770.) the hilton probationary term has expired, a trial court no longer has tion, and the court at p. 772.) although a trial court granting probation must impose mandate is necessarily subject to the preexisting probation law 6 courts have reached a different result when the sentence does not involve probation and section 1203modification during the term of probation does not apply. (see, e.g., people v. bufford (2007) 146 cal.app.4th 966 [ 1203.3 did not apply where defendant sentenced to prison, and therefore court retained jurisdiction under  1202.4 to set restitution after defendant completed her sentence].) 15 that once the probationary term has expired, a trial court lacks jurisdiction over a probationer, lacks jurisdiction to impose restitution or additional restitution, and lacks jurisdiction to modify probation to impose any such restid. at p. 780.)7 although requiring the trial court, since it chose the disposition of probation, to impose restitution as a condition of probation. the court was then required to exercise probation jurisdiction accordingly, subject to preexisting probation law. this included the law the trial court lacked jurisdiction to modify probation or, therefore, impose restitution, after hilton, suprahilton with the preexisting statutory and case law concerning probation, with the result that that section does not authorize a trial court id in waters, the defendant pleaded no contest to charges she embezzled from her employer. (241 cal.app.4th at p. 825.) the defendant was sentenced to probation, but the trial court failed to order the defendant to pay restitution to her employer. several years after the defendant successfully completed her probation, 7 the preexisting law cited by hilton holding that modification of a probationary term after probation had expired in re bakke (1986) 42 cal.3d 84, 90, fn. 5; in re griffin (1967) 67 cal.2d 343, 346; people v. lewis (1992) 7 cal.app.4th 1949, 19551956; and people v. white (1982) 133 cal.app.3d 677, 682683. (hilton, supra 16 she petitioned to reduce her felony conviction to a misdemeanor pursuant to section 1203.4. (ibid.) in response, the court indicated it intended to order restitution and would not grant the section 1203.4 petition unless restitution was paid in full. (ibid.) the defendant initially stipulated to restitution, but then withdrew her stipulation and contested its imposition. (id. at p. 826.) the trial court thereafter set victim restitution at $20,080. (ibid.) agreeing with the reasoning of hilton, the waters court found the restitution order was in excess of jurisdiction. (241 cal.app.4th at p. 829.) waters rejected the argument that the victim restitution order was not prohibited general has not identified any authority which would allow a trial court to order victim restitution outside of probation in this situation. although section 1202.4, subdivision (f) does provide every case in which a victim has suffered economic loss as a courts the power to impose restitution in probation cases other than as a condition of probation. moreover, subdivision (m) of section 1202.4 suggests that, in this context, victim restitution id. at p. 830.) waters also rejected the notion that section 1202.46 permitted an order of restitution after probation terminated: . etain jurisdiction over a person subject to a restitution order for purposes of imposing or modifying restitution until such time as the losses may be orrection, at any time, of a 17 sentence when the sentence is invalid due to the omission of a restitution order or fine . . . be harmonized with the preexisting statutory and case law concerning probation, including section 1203.3, which limits the waters, supra, 241 cal.app.4th at pp. in this case, the facts are closely analogous to hilton and waters. in waters, no restitution was ordered during probation. in hilton, a specific amount of restitution was ordered during probation. here, restitution was ordered but no amount specified during probation. the people do not argue hilton or waters was wrongly decided. they instead argue the facts here are distinguishable because determining the amount of restitution after the expiration of probation restitution-related condition of his probationary sentence, and thus different than imposing or modifying an amount of restitution after the expiration of probation. we respectfully disagree. imposing $20,800 in restitution, as was done in waters, was a modification to the terms of probation. adding $886,000 to a previously imposed restitution order, as occurred in hilton, was also a modification. it is equally plain, in our view, that adding $5,476.04 to a previously undetermined amount would modify the restitution order made during the term of probation and was therefore permissible only during the term of probation. under any commonsense definition subject to the limitations of section 1203.3. (e.g., bla 18 -webster unabridged dict. online (2019) <http://unabridged.merriam-webster.com/unabridged/modification> e act or action of changing something without fundamentally , as archived at <https://perma.cc/49as-szvw>.) d. renteria is estopped from challenging the modification of restitution even where a trial court lacks jurisdiction to modify a restitution order following the end of the probationary term, our supreme court has held a defendant may be estopped from challenging such a modification. (see people v. ford (2015) 61 cal.4th 282 (fordappear, and violation of other probation terms, estop him from asserting a lack of jurisdiction. we agree.8 1. types of jurisdiction in ford, the supreme court addressed a restitution dispute similar to the one at issue here and declined to decide whether the trial court lacked jurisdiction to modify a restitution order after probation expired because the defendant was estopped from (61 cal.4th at p. 287.) ford distinguished between two ways in which a court may lack jurisdiction, namely a lack of fundamental jurisdiction versus performing an act in excess of 8 because we find renteria is estopped from asserting a lack of jurisdiction, we need not reach the question as to which we requested supplemental briefing: october 27, 2017 order terminating probation was an unauthorized sentence such that tation to modification during the term of probation would not apply. 19 jurisdiction. (see idin a fundamental sense when it has no authority at all over the subject matter or the parties, or when it lacks any power to hear or determine the case. [citation.] . . . [] even when a court has fundamental jurisdiction, however, the constitution, a statute, or relevant case law may constrain the court to act only in a particular manner, or subject to certain limitations. [citations.] . . . . when a trial court has fundamental jurisdiction but fails to ibid.) the trial court in ford, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 287.) as for whether the trial court could act in ex probation has terminated. [citatibid.) relying on this holding in ford, the people argue that renteria should be estopped from challenging an order setting restitution after the termination of probation. 2. defendant to appear created an estoppel in ford, the defendant was estopped from challenging the he consented to continue the restitution hearing to a date past the term of his probation. (61 cal.4th at p. 289.) other cases on which the people rely have similar facts. (e.g., in re bakke, 20 supraexecution of his jail term to date beyond end of his probation]; in re griffin, supra, defendant himself requested continuance of restitution setting hearing to a date beyond termination of probation].) while conceding he performed extremely poorly on probation and failed to appear multiple times, renteria argues he is not estopped because he did not seek or consent to any action after probation terminated regarding restitution. view, it is the people and not him who bear responsibility for the failure to hold a restitution setting hearing before his probation was terminated. both the waters and hilton courts found the defendants in those cases were not estopped from challenging the exercise of jurisdiction to impose restitution. in waters, the court found the role in delaying the (241 cal.app.4th at p. 831.) similarly, in hilton, the court distinguished situations [the defendant] violated probation, the trial court revoked probation, or there was a change of circumstances warranting an extension (239 cal.app.4th at 777, fn. 6.) here, in contrast, renteria played a central role in the delay. he violated probation, leading to proceedings in two different departments, and he failed to appear on multiple occasions. these probationary violations and failures to appear interfered with the ability to recalendar the restitution setting hearing at which he failed to appear and were de facto consent to 21 deferring the restitution setting hearing to a later date. we are the people should have acted with more alacrity to recalendar the hearing before probation was terminated, or should have demanded the court proceed without his presence. renteria created the scheduling problems in the first place by failing to appear at the original restitution setting hearing, failing to appear two more times after that, and violating his probation on several occasions (including being charged in yet another burglary case) necessitating additional delay for the preparation of supplemental probation reports. the people did not instigate any of those delays. the people should have acted more quickly to unravel the multiple scheduling headaches he himself created. we agree they should have, as it would have resolved this issue nearly two years ago and mooted the issue we now address. but permitting renteria to avoid his constitutional obligation to make restitution when he played a substantial role in creating the scheduling problems that led to the restitution setting hearing taking place after the termination of his probation would work an obvious inequity. we do not construe probation violations and failures to appear as an open-ended estoppel permitting the setting of a specific restitution amount at any future date. the delay here was minimal and proportional to the scheduling problems renteria generated. the restitution setting hearing occurred probation, and two months after he appeared in court following precipitating the delay in having a restitution setting hearing 22 specific amount of restitution owed. iv. disposition of restitution is reversed, and the matter remanded to hold a hearing to set that amount. not to be published weingart, j.* we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 