filed 11/14/18 p. v. hoang ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lan thi hoang, defendant and appellant. b287164 (los angeles county super. ct. nos. zm038591, ya09663901) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, donna q. groman and robert s. harrison, judges. affirmed. christopher l. haberman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie c. brenan and wyatt e. bloomfield, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant lan thi hoang appeals from an order of the superior court finding her incompetent to stand trial under penal code section 13681 and ordering her admitted to patton state hospital (patton) for treatment. appellant contends the finding of incompetency failure to hold a marsden hearing. (people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118.) we affirm. factual and procedural background appellant was charged in august 2017 with two counts of violating section 115, procuring or offering a false or forged instrument. on august 24, 2017, the court appointed dr. phani tumu under evidence code section 730 to evaluate appellant for competency to stand trial within the meaning of section 1368. dr. tumu submitted his report on september 28, 2017, concluding and was not competent to stand trial. dr. tumu based his report on his review of the records and his interview of appellant. dr. tumu stated that appellant her age and correct date of birth. she stated that she stopped paying rent for her apartment in november 2016 because of problems that were not being fixed. 1 unspecified statutory references will be to the penal code. 3 made several attempts to reenter, including by saying she was the appellant told dr. tumu she had received psychiatric treatment when she was in jail in 2010. she stated t. she claimed that she was in patton for two years and had filed a lawsuit alleging false imprisonment. when dr. tumu asked appellant about the charges against her, appellant asked dr. tumu for the complaint, but he advised her to ask her public defender. ot she people for $2 million each. conviction about what she believed was wrong. it was difficult to interrupt her once she started talking. she then said her current to a conflict of interest (since she is suing the county). [she] mentioned having lost $8000 on three private attorneys thus far; she reiterated a 4 not able to trust her public defender due to her assertion that the public defender works for los angeles county, the entity she is currently her thought content did not include auditory/visual hallucinations and grandiose delusions were not elicited. [appellant] produced persecutory-sounding statements. her mood was dysphoric and her affect was constricted. her insight and judgment were impaired. her out mold but an inspection did not find any evidence of such. on 12/3/16, . . appellant described her 2010 involuntary hospitalization and forced -based, her descriptions of other events makes me believe that she perceives the actions/statements of oth against her and the circumstances of the arrest, although it appeared to be clouded with persecutory themes. [appellant] has a good understanding of the courtroom personnel and procedures; she was which actually rise to the level of psychosis. dr. tumu recommended 5 the use of antipsychotic medication. report on october 5, 2017. on october 1, 2017, prior to the competency hearing, appellant submitted a letter and petition to the court dated october 1, 2017, seeking her release and the return of her property. she challenged various aspects of her detention, including assertions that police officers and the century regional detention facility violated provisions of welfare and institutions code sections 5150 and 5151.2 she also stated that the public defender, among others (including employees of the city and county of los angeles and clerks of the court), had a conflict of interest because she had filed a claim against them in federal court. the court held a competency hearing on october 19, 2017. the address what the proceeding is . . . i note you feel that there was some impropriety in your being incarcerated, but . . . you are basically arguing about being hospitalized and you are not being hospitalized appellant tried to ask if the court received her motion to dismiss, but the court told her that she had no right to speak because her competency was in question. petition but 2 these provisions address the detention for 72 hours of a person for evaluation and treatment. (welf. & inst. code,  5150, subd. (a).) 6 report. incompetent within the meaning of section 1368. appellant wrote a second motion for dismissal dated october 13, 2017, but it was not received and filed by the court until october 24, 2017, after the competency hearing. efi rubinstein, a forensic evaluator, prepared a placement report dated november 2, 2017, recommending that appellant receive restoration to competency services at the department of state hospitals. concluded that appellant required a locked inpatient setting because she repeatedly denied she suffered from a mental illness and refused to take medications. at the november 16, 2017 placement hearing, appellant attempted to raise the issues she had raised in her second motion for dismissal, arguing that she was not allowed to present evidence at her competency hearing, but the court denied the motion. the court committed appellant to the department of state hospitals for treatment to restore competency and authorized involuntary medication . appellant timely appealed.3 3 a defendant to be incompetent and committing him to a state hospital is appealable as a final judgment in a special pr(people v. christiana (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 1040, 1045.) 7 discussion appellant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support the finding of incompetency. she also contends the trial court erred in failing to hold a marsden hearing based on her assertions that the public defender could not represent her because of her lawsuit against los angeles county. i. sufficiency of the evidence appellant contends the evidence is insufficient to support the finding that she was not competent to stand trial. a defendant is mentally incompetent . . . [if] the defendant is unable to understand the nature of the criminal proceedings or to assist counsel in the conduct of ( 1367.) on appeal a finding of cannot be disturbed if there is any substantial and credible evidence in the [citation.]  . . .  however, a defendant is presumed mentally (people v. hightower (1996) 41 cal.app.4th 1108, 1111-1112 (hightower).) -minute interview and a review of 3 failed to review her mental health records from prior cases and did not . appellant 8 wit she points mpetent to stand trial persecutory delusions, but the report does not set forth how these stand trial is whether a a reasonable degree of rational understanding and has a rational as (hightower, supra, 41 cal.app.4th at p. 1112.) of the trier of fact upon the issue of competency to stand trial cannot be disturbed if there is any substantial and credible evidence in the record people v. campbell (1976) 63 cal.app.3d 599, 608.) when a qualified mental health expert who has examined the defendant because of mental illness, the defendant is incapable of understanding the purpose or nature of the criminal proceedings against him, or of people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 10321033 (mai).) dr. tumu opined that appellant suffered from onal disorder, persecutory type, stating that she believed that she was 9 charge against her and the circumstanc, citing her . dr. tumu furthduring my interview. her answers were laced with a persecutory there is no evidence that dr. tumu was not a qualified mental health expert. (see mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1032.) nor is there any evidence contradicting his opinion that appellant was incapable of . . . cooperating with counsel. (id. at p. 1033.) to the contrary, in 1, 2017 letter to the court, appellant not only stated that the public defender had a conflict of interest because of her federal lawsuit, she also asserted that the public defender was engaged in a conspiracy with other employees of the city and county of los angeles. this alleged conspiracy business, home, car, and belongings, and the extortion of appellant by taking her passport and using it to obtain credit cards.4 public defender was engaged in a criminal conspiracy against her ould be unable to rationally assist in her defense. 4 10 s report constitutes substantial evidence in support of mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at pp. 1032-1033; in re john z. he competency].)5 ii. marsden appellant argues that the trial court was required to hold a marsden hearing before adjudicating her competency. this might be true if the record showed that appellant clearly indicated she wanted substitution of counsel. however, we conclude that she did not inform the court that she wanted substitution of counsel. appellant cites dr. tumu statement in his report that appellant ot represent her due to a conflict of she also cites the statement 5 appellant also contends that the trial court failed to make findings in support of its order, either orally or in writing, in violation of california rules of court, rule 4.130(e)(4)(b). comments were brief, when appellant asked the court why she was going on in trial and you . [a] defense attorney may validly submit a competency determination on the available psychiatric reports people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 905.) in addition, the trial court was mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1032 [opinion of qualified mental health expert who examined defendant can constitute substantial evidence of incompetence]; people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1217 [same].) 11 that she insistence it would be a conflict of interest secondary to her one appellant also relies on her october 1, 2017 letter to the court prior to the competency hearing, in which she asserted the following.6 complaint with community program director, district attorney, public of employees of city of los angeles, city [of] gardena, and county of los angeles, includes clerks of the court in long beach court and central court are my defendants in federal court[. they] have been [practicing] under color of law and conspiracy with my defendants to theft my business, my home[,] my car, my belonging includ[ing] my passport <my public defender extortion me must give her my passport>. court ordered return passport to me on 04/12/13 but until now ms. daniel public defender did not return passport to me. i am a victim of identity theft crimes used my passport to obtain credit cards under my the s sixth amendment right to the effective assistance of counsel. [citation.] accordingly, a court must appoint substitute counsel if either the current appointed attorney is providing inadequate representation [citation] or the attorney-client relationship has become embroiled in such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective 6 we quote from her letter as written, with minor changes for clarity. 12 respecific reasons why he believes he is not being adequately represented people v. vera (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 970, 978979.) in people v. sanchez (2011) 53 cal.4th 80 (sanchez), our supreme court explained when a trial court has a duty to conduct a marsden hearing. the court stated that ts duty to permit a defendant to state his reasons for dissatisfaction with his attorney arises when the defendant in some manner moves to discharge his current counsel. . . . e do not necessarily require a proper and formal legal motion, but at least some clear indication by defendant that he wants a substitute attorney. (id. at pp. 8788.) even where a trial court has suspended criminal proceedings pending a hearing on a defendants competency to stand trial [citation], may and indeed must promptly consider a motion for substitution of counsel when the right to effective assistance would be substantially impaired if his request were ignored. [citation.]in re m.p. (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 441, 456 (m.p.).) in people v. solorzano (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1063, the defendant clearly told the trial court that he wanted to fire his attorney because he failed to obtain medical records and school records arguing with him, and because his counsel had a conflict of interest 13 with him.id. at p. 1070.) the defendant told the trial court he did not want the attorney to continue representing him, but the court refused to hold a marsden hearing. the appellate court reversed, marsden motion before adjudicating hiibid.) the court rejected the argument find beyond a reasonable doubt that the failure to make an immediate marsden tion that m.p., supra, 217 cal.app.4th at p. 456.) by contrast, in people v. gonzalez (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 724, the defendant filed a motion that stated, sic] like to go pro per . . . id. at p. 741.) the here was no clear indication that [the defendant] was requesting a substitute appointed attorney so as to require the court to conduct a marsden heaibid.) unlike in solorzanoappellant wanted a substitute attorney. (sanchez, supra, 53 cal.4th at public defender had a conflict of interest because of her $100 million lawsuit against the county, but it does not indicate that she had named her public defender in a lawsuit or that she wanted a substitute attorney. her october letter is unclear, but it seems to state that the public defender is a defendant in her federal lawsuit. however, she 14 continues by asserting implausible claims about a conspiracy by numerous government employees to steal her business, home, and car, and to extort her somehow by taking her passport. substitute counsel. ate a marsden motion sua marsden inquiry constitutional ripeople v. lara marsdennot find error on the part of the trial court for failure to conduct a marsden hearing in the absence of evidence that defendant made his (people v. richardson (2009) 171 cal.app.4th 479, 484.) the record here does not show that appellant made her desire for appointment of new counsel known to the court. // // // // // // // 15 disposition the order appealed from is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: collins, j. micon, j.* *judge of the los angeles county superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 