 filed 4/23/19 p. v. martinez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. paul martinez, defendant and appellant. b287722 los angeles county super. ct. no. na107097 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, gary j. ferrari, judge. affirmed. jeffrey j. douglas, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and stephanie c. santoro, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant paul martinez of robbery. on appeal, martinez contends the evidence was insufficient to prove the force or fear required for an estes robbery.1 facts and procedural background on july 25, 2017, around 2:00 p.m., martinez came into a coffee bean & tea leaf shop in long beach. martinez stuck his hands into the tip jars on the counter and took out cash. coffee shop employee skie carranza saw martinez take the money. carranza went to the door of the shop that opened onto a patio and blocked it. ca martinez tried to barg[e] at least twice. there was physical contact carranza told something poked carranza in his left arm and martinez pushed carranza back. the sharp o[a] pointed carranza told his co-worker to get the manager, who was in the back of the shop. the manager, lapetria mcmoore, came out and asked what was going on. carranza told mcmoore that martinez had stolen from the tip jars. mcmoore asked martinez if he had taken the tip money and he said yes. 1 people v. estes (1983) 147 cal.app.3d 23. 3 rted to basically challenge everybody, almost like he was challenging people to fight him or to step up to just kind of martinez went around carranza, who was still in the doorway. martinez then left, taking the money with him. carranza stepped to the side because no one helped him block the exit. customer john pearson followed martinez out of the coffee shop. pearson saw martinez get into a pickup truck. pearson took pictures of the truck as martinez drove away. coffee shop employee lyndsey centeno and customer lluvia zuniga later said martinez had had a knife in his hand. martinez left two cell phones behind when he left the coffee shop. a day or two later, martinez returned, asking for his phones. surveillance video from two camera angles recorded the incident. we have watched the video. martinez can be seen entering the coffee shop, approaching the counter, and reaching into both of the tip jars to take out cash. carranza is several feet away from the tip jars, doing something behind the counter. he appears to see what martinez is doing and returns to the tip jar and register area. martinez had laid his cell phone on the counter while he was taking the money and carranza picks it up. martinez gathers up the dollar bills and turns toward the door. carranza comes around from behind the counter and stands in the doorway. carranza holds his hands out to the sides as if he is trying to reason with martinez. martinez appears to be arguing with carranza, holding one arm out and then the other, face. martinez then hits the glass next to the door hard with 4 his right hand, only inches from carra2 martinez tries to push past carranza through the door. carranza continues to try to block martinez from leaving, putting his right martinez appears to be considerably stockier than carranza. in the meantime, a womanpresumably the manageremerges from the back of the shop and stands behind the register and tip jar area. she appears to be speaking to martinez. martinez again approaches the counter. he appears to be arguing with the manager. martinez goes back to the door and tries to go around carranza. martinez again is close to -to-face in the doorway. martinez eventually gets through the doorway. carranza returns to the counter area, looking at the inside of his left elbow, presumably at the puncture made by the sharp object martinez had. the people charged martinez with second degree robbery. the people alleged martinez had personally used a weapon a knifein the commission of the robbery. martinez testified on his own behalf at trial. martinez said he suffers from diabetes, he had been living in his truck, and he medication. martinez testified he was out of gas. he stopped at a gas station next to the coffee shop and asked a number of the martinez testified he was trying to trade his cell phones for gas money. martinez said he had his keys in his hand. martinez testified 2 martinez testified at trial that he struck the glass because he had a staph infection that was hurting his penis. 5 blocking the doorway at the same time. the jury convicted martinez. it found the allegation that he used a knife to be not true. the trial court sentenced martinez to five years in the state prison, suspended execution of that sentence, placed martinez on probation, and ordered him to participate in a program designed for probationers who have mental health issues and are homeless. discussion martinez contends there is no substantial evidence to demonstrate property or to facilitate [his] we do not agree. in assessing the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record to determine whether any reasonable trier of fact could have found the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59-60.) support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) view the evidence in the light most favorable to respondent and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact people v. reilly (1970) 3 cal.3d 421, 425.) the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, (pen. code,  211.) among other elements, the prosecution must prove the defendant used force or fear to take the property or to prevent the other person from resisting. (ibid.; see calcrim 6 circumstances that the property is taken from the person or presence of another . . . and is accomplished by the use of force or by putting the victim in fear of injury. (people v. gomez (2008) 43 cal.4th 249, 254, fn. 2.)people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 994.) offense that begins from the time of the original taking until the robber reaches a (people v. estes (1983) (people v. anderson, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 994.) thus, a defendant who does not use force or fear when he first takes the property may nonetheless be guilty of robbery if he upresence. (people v. gomez, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 256-257, 264; see also estes, suprasufficient to support the conviction that appellant used force to prevent the [victim] from retaking the property and to facilitate his escape.) here, the parties agree martinez did not use force3 when he took the cash from the two tip jars on the counter. however having watched the video and read the trial testimonywe conclude there is substantial evidence martinez used force to get past carranza and leave the coffee shop with the money. martinez tried twice through and banged his carranza testified martinez pushed him. the keys martinez had in his hand poked carranza, breaking the skin. this evidence was sufficient. (people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 687-688 [ 3 the district attorney conceded at trial that the case did not not a fear case . . . . 7 effort to escape the cafeteria with the money box completed a people v. pham (1993) 15 cal.app.4th [i]t is enough that defendant forcibly prevented the ; people v. garcia (1996) .) to violence to further his theft, and not the decision of the victim to confront the perpetrator, that should be analyzed in cons (people v. gomez, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 264.) where, as here, the evidence supporting the force element is legally sufficient, it is the trier of factnot this courtthat lt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 849-850; people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 40-41 [we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts].) 8 disposition we affirm paul not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. dhanidina, j. 