 filed 2/20/19 p. v. greer ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. nicholas sean greer, defendant and appellant. _____________________________________ in re nicholas sean greer, on habeas corpus. b287247 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba456529) b292043 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba456529) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jose i. sandoval, judge. affirmed. petition for writ of habeas corpus denied. 2 byron c. lichstein, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and nancy lii ladner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ a jury convicted defendant and appellant nicholas sean greer of two counts of petty theft and three counts of making criminal threats, and the trial court sentenced him to four years in prison. greer contends the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury on self-defense; the prosecution violated brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 (brady) by failing to timely disclose material, exculpatory information; and the cumulative effect of the purported errors requires reversal. greer has also filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus, based on the same grounds. we ordered his petition considered concurrently with his direct appeal, directed the people to file an informal response, and invited greer to file a reply. we affirm the judgment and deny the writ petition. factual and procedural background 1. facts glamazon, inc. is a business located in downtown los angeles. premises through an open gate and stole a bicycle belonging to the business. glamazon employees rodrigo badillo and adrian lopez saw greer take the bicycle and pursued him, lopez on foot and badillo in a van. greer rode the bicycle to the nearby office of troski cargo (troski). he , 3 rode it into the lobby, dropped it, and entered the unoccupied office troski employee arely razo told greer he was not allowed to be there. troski employee arturo guerra followed greer into the office. ipad from the office desk, placed it in his pants, and attempted to leave. guerra grabbed him from behind and they both fell to the ground. greer tried to strike guerra with his elbows. badillo and lopez, still pursuing greer, offices. badillo, yong, and troski employee hector frutos joined guerra in struggling with greer over the ipad. greer swung his body, arms, and legs, attempting to break free; he also attempted to strike the men with his fists and kick them. guerra, badillo, yong, and frutos held greer down. frutos retrieved the ipad and razo and lopez called 911. once greer had been subdued, the men released him from their hold, allowed him to stand up, and kept him in the office for approximately 10 minutes, until police arrived. greer suffered a bloody nose, either from hitting the desk or from being punched by yong during the struggle. both during the struggle and while awaiting the arrival of police officers, greer threatened that he would return, burn the business down, and kill everyone. he repeatedly pled with the men to let him leave. police officers arrived, detained greer, and placed him in a patrol car. the witnesses, who stood approximately five feet away, gave statements to one of the officers, which were recorded by . greer yelled from the patrol car that he would be back, would kill them all, and would look at 4 guerra, razo, and frutos testified that the threats caused them to be fearful. 2. procedure a jury acquitted greer of the second degree robbery but convicted him of two counts of petty theft (pen. code,  484, subd. (a)),1 and three counts of making criminal threats (against guerra, razo, and frutos). ( 422, subd. (a).) greer admitted serving a prior prison term within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). two of the criminal threats charges to misdemeanors. it sentenced greer to a term of four years in prison,2 and imposed a restitution fine, a suspended parole revocation restitution fine, a criminal conviction assessment, and a court operations assessment. greer timely filed a notice of appeal. discussion 1. self-defense instruction defense counsel did not request, and the trial court did not give, a self-defense instruction. greer contends that the court prejudicially erred by failing to sua sponte instruct the jury on self-defense, thereby violating his state and federal due process rights. in his habeas petition, greer contends his counsel 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 the trial court imposed a three-year sentence on count 2 (criminal threats), the base term, plus a one-year term for the section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancement. it ordered terms of 180 days in jail on the remaining counts, to run concurrently to the base count. 5 provided ineffective assistance by failing to request such an instruction. we disagree with both contentions. a. applicable legal principles a trial court has a sua sponte duty to instruct regarding a defense if there is substantial evidence to support it and it is not people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 517; people v. salas (2006) 37 cal.4th 967, 982; people v. saavedra (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 561, 567.) however, a trial court does not err in failing to give a self-defense instruction where there is no substantial evidence to support it. (people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 551; people v. villanueva (2008) 169 cal.app.4th 41, 49; see generally people v. nguyen (2015) 61 cal.4th 1015, 10481049; people v. ross (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1033, 1050.) substantial evidence is that sufficient to deserve consideration by the jury, that is, evidence a reasonable jury could find persuasive. (people v. williams (2015) 61 cal.4th 1244, 1263; people v. ross, at pp. 10491050.) the existence of any evidence, no matter how weak, will not justify an instruction. (people v. wyatt (2012) 55 cal.4th 694, 698.) in deciding whether the evidence is sufficient to support an instruction, a court does not weigh the credibility of the defense evidence, but only considers whether there was evidence that, if credited, was sufficient to support the defense. (people v. salas, at p. 982; people v. saavedra, at p. 567.) doubts as to the sufficiency of the evidence to warrant an instruction should be resolved in favor of the accused. (people v. cole (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 452, 484.) we independently review the question of whether the trial court erred by failing to instruct on a defense. (people v. oropeza (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 73, 78.) 6 it is well settled that a defendant cannot assert self-defense ., the initiation of a physical assault or the commission of a felony),circumstances under which his adin re christian s. (1994) 7 cal.4th 768, 773, fn. 1; people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1226; people v. valencia (2008) 43 cal.4th 268, 288.) as greer appropriately acknowledges, a private person is statutorily authorized to arrest a perpetrator who commits an offense in his or her presence. (see  692, 693, 694 [a party about to be injured, and other parties, may lawfully offer resistance sufficient to prevent a public offense, including an illegal attempt to take property by force];  834, 835, 837 [private person may arrest another for a public offense committed or attempted in his presence, and may ; see people v. fosselman (1983) 33 cal.3d 572, 579to defend himself against aggression by a trespasser, then the trespasser has no right of self-defense against the people v. johnson (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 702, 709710; people v. adams (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 946, 952 (adams) [when a private citizen employs reason the arrestee is obliged not to resist, and has no right of self defense against such force .) b. the trial court did not err by omitting a self-defense instruction ployees, were therefore 7 privileged to chase greer, wrest the bicycle from him, and . before lopez and badillo could stop greer, he trespassed into troski and took therefore, yong, along with troski employees guerra and frutos, were likewise entitled to restrain greer and retake the ipad from trespasser and a thto resist them was not, because his unlawful conduct created the circumstances under which the victims used force. (people v. johnson, supra, 180 cal.app.4th at pp. 709710; people v. fosselman, supra, 33 cal.3d at p. 579 [there is no right to defend a private person restrained him].) greer argues, however, that he was entitled to a self-defense instruction because there was evidence the victims used excessive force in restraining him, and the jury could have (see people v. frandsen (2011) 196 unlawful the defendant-aggressor regains the right of self-defense]; people v. adams, supra, 176 cal.app.4th at p. 952 [use of unreasonable or excessive force to make an arrest constitutes a public offense, and all persons have a right to prevent injury to themselves by resisting].) greer acknowledges that there is an absence of authority holding self-defense can be an affirmative defense to a criminal threats charge. nonetheless, he argues it should be, because sections 692 and 693 state that a party may engage in [r]esistance, at least in common parlance, does not require actual force directed against the person or thing 8 people v. superior court (ferguson) (2005) 132 cal.app.4th 1525, 1528, 1530 [flight constitutes willful resistance to a peace officer].) assuming arguendo that self-defense may be a defense to a criminal threats charge, the trial court here did not err by failing to give the instruction because there was insufficient evidence supporting it. greer argues that the evidence showed: ained him and pinned him to the ground; yong punched him in the face; lopez brought a stick into the office with the intent to beat him up; and he was alone and unarmed. thief in the face over a minor property crime constitutes excessive these contentions are unavailing. first, characterizing the men as physically imposing is something of an overstatement. the videotape shows the men to be fit and muscular, but they are of average size. second, lopez did pick up a stick or board when entering troski and badillo but lopez testified he did not participate in the efforts to restrain greer, never touched him, did not use the stick the video shows that lopez dropped the stick moments after entering the office, and no evidence showed he ever used it or that greer was aware of its presence. the stick evidence is thus irrelevant. third, as we have discussed, the men were entitled to restrain greer by reasonable means. ( 835 [the person arrested may be subjected to such restraint as is reasonable for his arrest 9 .) the fact five men were present is of no moment. lopez did not participate in restraining greer, and it took all four of the remaining men to subdue greer and prevent his escape. as many persons as he deems necessar].) the men were entitled to pin greer because he struggled violently in his efforts to escape. to accomplish this, badillo held his knees, another man held his arms, and another placed his knee on struggling, the men allowed him to stand up and, of his own volition, sit down against the office wall. from this undisputed evidence, jurors could not have concluded the men used excessive force. fourth, the fact yong may have hit greer once during the struggle did not constitute evidence of excessive force sufficient to reinvest greer with the right of self-defense. fails to take into account his own behavior during the incident. greer did not meekly submit when he encountered the men; instead he used violent means to try to escape. the witnesses consistently testified that when they tried to stop greer and retrieve the ipad, he was aggressive and violently struggled, including swinging his arms, fists, elbows, and body, attempting to kick them, and breaking of items. indeed, greer hit and elbowed some of the men. according to badillo, yong punched greer because greer wa. yong likewise testified that when they tried to take the ipad, greer according to yong, he [greer]. i just tried to defend mysel yong explained that t 10 had to reply to his violence, and obviously one has to defend under the circumstances, yong was entitled to strike back elbow him and the others. (see people v. ross, supra, 155 cal.app.4th at p. 1044 [if a walks up to b and punches him withed under the law of this state to punch a immediately, without further ado, provided he acted out of an actual and reasonable belief that such action was necessary reasonable force]; people v. myers (1998) 61 cal.app.4th 328, 330 force to resist a battery even when he has no reason to believe he is about to ; calcrim no. 3475 [if a trespasser does not leave and it reasonably appears he poses a threat to the property or the occupant, the occupant may use reasonable force; if the trespasser resists, thincrease the amount of force he or she uses in proportion to the foviewing the evidence most favorably for greer, yong hit him in the face once, during the struggle, no showing the punch caused significant injury. under these circumstances, no reasonable jury could find yong or the other men used excessive force. adams, supra, 176 cal.app.4th 946, does not compel a contrary result. there, adams committed a hit-and-run accident and ran into a park. according to him, two men from the victim car, bui and gallegos, caught up with him. they each pushed adams, and gallegos punched him. when it appeared bui was preparing to throw another punch, adams swung at the same 11 time, knocking bui down and causing injury. the trial court instructed on self-defense and on id. at pp. 949951.) in response to a jury question, the court stated that a citizen making an arrest may use reasonable force, but if the citizen uses excessive force, the defendant has the right to defend himself. (id. at p. 951.) on appeal, adams argued the it implied he had the right to self-defense only after excessive force was employed, rather than at the point he reasonably believed a threat was imminent, i.e., he had to wait for the second punch to be thrown before defending himself. (id. at p. 953.) adams assumed without analysis that the second punch would have constituted excessive force, but found the instructions given properly stated the law. (id. at pp. 953955.) we do not understand adams to hold that a punch is, ipso facto, excessive force. adams devoted no analysis to the question, but based on defendant understanaccording to adams, when gallegos and bui caught up with him he offered to pay for the damage to their car. in response, bui swore at him, challenged him to a fight, and pushed him; gallegos shoved him; bui pushed him a second time; gallegos struck him; and bui prepared to punch him. (adams, supra, 176 cal.app.4th at p. 949.) nothing like that occurred here. as explained, the undisputed evidence showed all the force used against greerpunchwas in response to released him once he stopped resisting. in any event, even if there was sufficient evidence of excessive force, there was a dearth of evidence showing greer had the requisite mental state. self-defense requires a showing that 12 the defendant reasonably believed he was in imminent danger of suffering bodily injury or being touched unlawfully; reasonably believed the immediate use of force was necessary to defend against that danger; and used no more force than was reasonably necessary. (people v. johnson, supra, 180 cal.app.4th at p. 709.) the defendant must have acted because of that belief.ibid.) greer did not testify. certainly, as he points out, a by means of circumstantial evidence, or through the testimony of other witnesses. (people v. oropeza, supra, 151 cal.app.4th at p. 82; people v. nguyen, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1055.) but the problem ted a conclusion that he had the requisite mental state and made the threats to induce the men to stop using force. and, the circumstantial evidence strongly points to the opposite attempt to convince the men to let him go before police arrived, not to convince them to cease using force. he variously apologized, explained he was stealing to buy crack cocaine, said to bribe the men with $5, and made the threats, all in an effort to convince them to let him leave the premises. moreover, the evidence showed greer made the threats not only while pinned on the ground, but also after the men let go of him in the office, and even after the police arrived, when any danger had surely passed. while seated in the police car, greer repeatedly stated he would (sic.) this evidence conclusively undercuts any inference that greer made the threats because he believed he was in danger. 13 struggle and a different intent after police arrived is not persuasive. it is highly unlikely the jury would have engaged in such mental gymnastics in the absence of any compelling evidence showing either excessive force, or an actual belief greer made the threats because he was concerned about the amount of force used. the existence of any evidence, no matter how weak, will not support a jury instruction. (people v. wyatt, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 698.) because there was no substantial evidence supporting the instruction, the trial court did not err by omitting it.3 that his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to request a self-defense instruction likewise fails. to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms; and (2) there is a reasonable probability that, favorable for defendant. (people v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 198; people v. roa (2017) 11 cal.app.5th 428, 454.) in support of his petition, greer attaches a copy of an email sent from trial counsel to appellate counsel, in which trial counsel avers that he -defense instruction erroneous. because, as we have explained, there was not substantial evidence supporting a self-defense instruction, counsel was not ineffective for failing to request one. (see, e.g., 3 in light of our conclusion, we find it unnecessary to address guments regarding prejudice. 14 people v. kendrick (2014) 226 cal.app.4th 769, 780 [counsel is not required to indulge in idle acts to appear competent]; people v. szadziewicz failure to make a futile or unmeritorious motion or request is not properly refused any such request, greer cannot demonstrate prejudice. accordingly, his ineffective assistance claim fails. 2. late disclosure of brady material greer argues, in his direct appeal and in his habeas petition, that his convictions must be reversed because the deputy district attorney violated brady, supra, 373 u.s. 83, by failing to timely disclose to the defense that some of the witnesses asked an officer whether their status as victims in the instant matter could serve as the basis for u-visa applications. a u-visa is a type of temporary nonimmigrant visa that provides legal status for noncitizens who assist in the investigation of serious crimes in which they have been victimized. (people v. morales (2018) 25 cal.app.5th 502, 506; 8 u.s.c.  1101(a)(15)(u); 8 c.f.r. 214.14; fonseca-sanchez v. gonzales (7th cir. 2007) 484 f.3d 439, 442, fn. 4.) we agree the information should have been brady violation and does not require reversal. a. additional facts jury selection concluded on september 12, 2017. on that date the parties made opening statements and the prosecutor conducted the direct examination of badillo, the first witness. the next morning, before examination, the prosecutor explained to the trial court that the investigating officer, steven salas, informed him that morning that 15 asked by witnesses in this case whether they would basically qualify or if they could apply for a the prosecutor immediately informed defense counsel. defense counsel and the prosecutor, with the aid of a spanish language interpreter, wed the relevant witnesses as to this point; two of the witnesses said that they had applied for a u visa; two of [the] witn the witnesses told the attorneys that they had inquired of officer salas about the u-visas when they appeared for the preliminary hearing. permitted defense counsel to question the victims about the visas, on the theory that their testimony might be colored by an -visa requirement that in order to qualify for the visa they must be crime victims. thereafter, the following testimony was adduced. defense counsel elicited from badillo that he was interested in applying for a u-visa. -visa based on the instant matter. work. yong confirmed that he was applying for a u-visa. he involvement in this case to help you get that u- yong defense counsel elicited testimony from officer salas about the nature of the u-visa program, the u-visa is basically a program that establishes a work permit for the people 16 that are victims and witnepretty the program salas confirmed that an applicant had to qualify for the u- some of the witnesses in the instant matter asked him about u-visas at the crime scene, when his body camera was off. salas told them that the program was available to crime victims and witnesses ate] with recall four of the civilian witnesses in an effort to impeach salas, based on the following circumstances. salas had testified that he turned off his body camera, and then remembered he had not he had a brief, unrecorded conversation with them about the threats, and also about the u-visas. u-visa conversation occurred at the scene contradicted one or more of with the prosecutor and counsel, that the u-visa conversation transpired at the preliminary hearing. based on this contradiction, defense counsel sought to recall the witnesses to testimony about their off-camera discussions about their fear was inaccurate. the prosecutor objected under evidence code section 352. the trial court agreed with the prosecutor and declined to allow recall of the witnesses. had not questioned razo about her u-visa fortable doing that in front of this 17 jury because i was not able to voir dire . . . as to the [u-visa]. counsel asked to recall razo to question her about the issue. the trial court denied the request, reasoning that razo had been present as a witness, counsel had been aware of the visa issue at the timepiggyback to the other issue. defense counsel did not object that the late disclosure of the u-visa information violated brady, nor did he request a continuance to explore the u-visa information, move for a mistrial, ask for a late-discovery instruction, or otherwise challenge the late discovery. b. law applicable to brady claims the due process clause of the federal constitution requires a prosecutor to disclose to the defense all material evidence known to the prosecution team that is favorable to the defendant, even in the absence of a request. (kyles v. whitley (1995) 514 u.s. 419, 432441; brady, supra, 373 u.s. at p. 87; people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 981982.) the duty extends to evidence known only to police investigators and not the prosecutor. (people v. lucas (2014) 60 cal.4th 153, 273, disapproved on another ground in people v. romero and self (2015) 62 cal.4th 1, 5354, fn. 19.) true brady violation occurs be favorable to the accused, either because it is exculpatory, or because it is impeaching; that evidence must have been suppressed by the state, either willfully or inadvertently; and people v. lucas, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 274; strickler v. greene (1999) 527 u.s. 263, 281282; people v. masters (2016) 62 cal.4th 1019, 1067.) prejudice, in this c 18 materiality, in turn, requires more than a showing that the suppressed evidence would have been admissible [citation], that the absence of the suppress[citation.] (people v. masters, at p. 1067; people v. lucas, at p. might have changed .) we independently review the question of whether a brady violation occurred. (people v. masters, at p. 1067.) c. forfeiture preliminarily, we agree with the people that brady claim has been forfeited. s contentions are based on information that was known or available to him at trial. consequently, his failure to make proper objections, request appropriate sanctions, or seek any continuance on the matter is fatal to his contentipeople v. morrison (2004) 34 cal.4th 698, 714.) nonetheless, we address the merits in light of d. greer has failed to establish either a brady violation or ineffective assistance of counsel we have no quarrel with the proposition that a application for a u-visa is potentially relevant as impeachment evidence. to obtain a u-visa the applicant must: specific facts regarding the criminal activity leading a certifying 19 official to determine that the petitioner has, is, or is likely to provide assistance to the investigation or prosecution of the elpful, or is likely to be helpful to a certifying agency in the investigation or prosecution of the qualifying criminal activity upon which his or her petition is based, and since the initiation of cooperation, has not refused or failed to provide informaromero-perez v. commonwealth (ky.ct.app. 2016) 492 s.w.3d 902, 906; cazorla v. koch foods of mississippi, l.l.c. (5th cir. 2016) 838 f.3d 540, 545.) u-visas generally entitle their holders and their family members to four years of nonimmigrant status; holders may . . . apply for lawful and aliens with pending, bona fide u-visa applications may obtain work authorization. (cazorla v. koch foods of mississippi, l.l.c., at p. 545.) thus, the prospect of a u-visa could give a witness an incentive to provide favorable testimony for the prosecution. (see romero-perez v. commonwealth, at p. 906 [one can readily see how the u-visa programs requirement of ctim to the prosecution could create an incentive to victims hoping to have their u-]; state v. del real-galvez (2015) 270 or.app. 224, 229232 [346 p.3d 1289, 12921294].) indeed, the people concede that u-visa evidence may be impeaching. but greer has failed to establish a brady violation. first, the evidence was not suppressed, because it was disclosed during trial, in time for the defense to make use of it effectively. tually presented at trial is not considered suppressed for brady purposes, even if that evidence had not been previously 20 people v. mora and rangel (2018) 5 cal.5th 442, 467 (mora); people v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263, 281; people v. morrison, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 715.) in people v. lucas, for example, the people failed to timely disclose a police report that contained information favorable to the defense. the prosecutor turned the report over to the defense two days after the witness who was the subject of the report testified. (people v. lucas, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 273.) lucas reasoned: report was suppressed by the prosecution. it is true that the san diego police department forms part of the and therefore, the prosecution had constructive possession of the gaining actual possession cured any brady id. at p. 274.) greer fails to demonstrate that the delay in disclosure resulted in prejudice. in considering a claim of delayed disclosure, mora looked to a test used by the first and tenth circuits, na defense counsel was the delay from using the disclosed material effectively in (mora, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 467; see united states v. tyndall (8th cir. 2008) -trial disclosure violates brady only if it in mora, the court found the late disclosure of numerous diagrams, police reports, and other documents was not prejudicial. (mora, at p. 467.) the materials were provided durinrequest, the court provided a recess to allow them to contact additional witnesses; the defense had the opportunity to review 21 tellingly, . . . neither [defendant] sought a remedy the court did id. at p. 469.) here, the prosecutor informed defense counsel of the -visa queries near the beginning of trial, before cross-examination of any witness occurred. defense counsel interviewed the witnesses regarding the u-visas. during his testimony, officer salas explained what a u-visa was, alerting the jury to the possibility that the witnesses might have an incentive to favor the prosecution. defense counsel questioned two of the witnesses regarding their hopes of obtaining u-visas based on their cooperation in the case, evidence from which the jury could potentially infer bias. nothing prevented counsel from examining the other two witnesses as well. greer points out that an attorney must be given ic but counsel had that opportunity here. the evidence was not complex. there was no need, for example, to seek out additional witnesses, employ new experts, digest new scientific evidence, pursue additional leads, or craft a new trial strategy. instead, the only value of the evidence to the defense was obvious: greer could argue the witnesses might slant their testimony in favor of the prosecution in hopes of obtaining the visas. this inference could readily have been drawn from the evidence counsel had in his possession, with no further ado. and, the fact no further investigation was necessary is shown in counselseek a continuance or any additional remedy at trial. (see mora, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 469.) in short, to the extent greer complains that defense counsel did not use the u-visa information effectively, this was not due to its late disclosure. 22 greer argues, based on the defense was hamstrung in its ability to examine the witnesses because counsel had not had the opportunity to conduct -visas. but this argument is a red herring: counsel did question two of the witnesses regarding the u-visas and elicited a description of the program from officer salas, undermining any contention that the absence of voir dire was a significant consideration. except for the voir dire issue, and as in mora, greer of choices that would have differed had the discovery been made available earlier, and the record reveals no obvious defense mora, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 469.) greer also complains -visa information by questions to officer salas. not so. the trial court allowed salas to explain the u-visa program frutos, arely razo and jose yong they are all using this case as a basis to qualify or apply for a u-ial court sustained the objection, the trial court did not err. defense counsel did ask two of the witnesses about their u-visa plans. as to the other two, the foundational objection was properly sustained because there was no showing the officer that they had asked him about the u-visas, nothing more. 23 next, greer argues that the trial court erred by denying his request to recall four of the witnesses to elicit that they spoke to officer salas at the preliminary hearing, rather than at the crime scene. the defense counsel had an opportunity to cross-examine [the witnesses] on [the u-visa issue] for possible bias. [d]etermining whether or not this officer spoke with the witnesses at [the] preliminary hearing or on scene i think is of tangential section] 352 for not like the trial court, we fail to see much probative value in the location where or when the conversation occurred. the pertinent question ing the visas based on their participation in the case, not the conversation or timing, as greer appears to acknowledge elsewhere in his argument. nor do we find merit in ineffective assistance claim, raised in both his direct appeal and his habeas petition. greer brady objection, move for a mistrial, or seek a continuance amounted to ineffective assistance. as noted ante, to establish ineffective assistance, a erformance was subpar, but also failings, the result would have been more favorable for defendant. (people v. mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 198.) because there was no brady violation, counsel did not err by failing to object on brady grounds or move for a mistrial.4 in light of the fact counsel 4 in his email to appellate counsel, trial counsel stated that he believed the u-visa information was discoverable, but not brady 24 was able to interview the witnesses before they testified, it was a reasonable tactical choice not to move for a continuance, which, in any event, would likely have been denied given the nature of the evidence at issue.5 (see mora, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 466 [a trial court has discretion to determine what sanction is appropriate to ensure a fair trial].) greer argues that defense counsel did not use the u-visa information effectively. he complains that counsel only questioned two of the four witnesses about their u-visa plans; he omitted to ask razo and frutos about the issue. moreover, he urges, counsel failed to argue, based on the u-visa evidence, that the witnesses were biased, which could have cast doubt on testimony from razo not suppressed because it was disclosed during trial and the defense had an adequate opportunity to make use of it, trial 5 discovery violation, i would have to review the transcript because i seem to remember discussing the issue of mistrial. additionally, if [i] remember correctly, i requested a late discovery . . . instruction as to the information but i think that it was denied. i think i also discussed the issue [with] the violation and requiring more time to research the matter but i think that greer argues these statements demonstrate trial counsel had no tactical reason for his actions, given that trial counsel did not actually request a continuance, a mistrial, or (as to the u-visas), a late discovery instruction. we are not persuaded. the email does not show counsel lacked a strategic reason for his conduct of the trial; instead it simply shows that, with the passage of time, counsel could not recall the details of the matter without reviewing the transcript. 25 caused them to be in sustained fear (an element of the criminal threats offenses). ( 422; people v. ramos (2016) 5 cal.app.5th 897, 910.) greer has failed to establish a reasonable probability that, purported failings, the result would have been more favorable for him. the witnesses testified consistently with each other, with their statements to officer salas at the scene, and with . all these statements were made at or very shortly after the incident, at a time when the witnesses would have been unlikely to have had either the time or the inclination to fabricate a false account. and, much of the testimony was corroborated by the video evidence. one video clip showed greer riding into the troski warehouse on a bicycle, pursued by badillo and lopez. another showed him riding through the warehouse, and a third depicted him riding into the troski lobby, droppin office. the video showed the men pursued him into the office, while razo placed a telephone call. further, tmade in the police car, including: [s] (sic.) thus, there was overwhelming and undisputed evidence that greer committed the theft and made the threats. the only element that the defense could hope to challenge was and frutosthe victims of the threats offensesto suffer sustained fear. all three credibly testified that they were afraid. razo, for example, explained that she did not know what greer was capable of, but given his conduct, she felt as though he would follow through on 26 his threats. this was eminently reasonable: nduct had been brazen, rash, and violent, and his threats were repeated and specific. there was no evidence guerra was interested in a u-visa, yet he testified he was afraid when greer made the threats redence to greer offers, in his habeas petition, no evidence regarding how razo and frutos might actually have testified regarding the u-visas; and tion to the court, only one of them had in fact applied for a u-visa. given this evidentiary void, testimony regarding the u-visas would have been significant or even particularly favorable for the defense. further, it was not as though counsel was precluded from arguing the point: even without asking razo and frutos about u-visas, defense counsel was able to cogently argue there was no sustained fear, based on, among other things, the fact the men released greer from their grasp before police arrived; the in the videos, did not show fearfulness; the witnesses did not ask about protective measures; and the witnesses were not asked whether they weron. in sum, greer has failed to establish his ineffective assistance claim. 3. cumulative error greer argues that, even if the purported errors were individually harmless, when viewed in combination they were prejudicial, requiring reversal. people v. lopez (2018) 5 cal.5th 339, 371.) 27 disposition the judgment is affirmed. the petition for writ of habeas corpus is denied. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: egerton, j. dhanidina, j. 