filed 9/27/19 p. v. rafael ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people of the state of california, plaintiff and respondent, v. max eliseo rafael, defendant and appellant. b287750 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba392902) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, charlaine f. olmedo, judge. affirmed as modified and remanded. jonathan e. demson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, idan ivri and nikhil cooper, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 appellant max rafael and codefendant david ponce were jointly tried for five murders. the jury convicted the defendants on all counts, and rafael was sentenced to multiple life terms without the possibility of parole. codefendant ponce received the death penalty.1 on appeal, rafael primarily argues the trial court prejudicially erred in denying his motion to sever the trial and admitting hearsay against him. we disagree and affirm. factual and procedural background on the night of november 1, 2008, five people living in a homeless encampment in long beach were shot and killed. the victims were lorenzo villacana, vanessa malaepule, hammid shraifat, frederick neumeier, and katherine verdun. all the victims had been shot multiple times at close range, and some sustained as many as eight gunshot wounds. over a year later, the police pulled over a car in which ponce and rafael were riding. a handgun was recovered from the vehicle. ponce and rafael were arrested. rafael was released temporarily, and then arrested again later. while they were in custody, a jailhouse informant recorded the codefendants discussing the long beach murders with each other. ponce and rafael were jointly charged with five counts of first degree murder for the killing of the long beach victims (pen. code,  187, subd. (a); counts 15)2, and one related count of kidnapping ( 207, subd. (a); count 6). ponce was also charged with the unrelated kidnapping and murder of tony bledsoe. the 1 supreme court (case no. s247253). 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise stated. 3 information alleged firearm enhancements ( 12022.53, subd. (d)), and gang enhancements ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) as to all counts. as to counts 1 through 5, the information further alleged the special circumstance that rafael was an active street gang participant, and murdered the victims to further the activities of the gang. ( 190.2, subd. (a)(22).) rafael pled not guilty to all counts and denied all allegations. at the joint that ponce and rafael were in the southside nuthood watts gang. rafael w the day after the long beach murders, ponce told tanabe that he and chato had murdered the victims at the homeless encampment. ponce said there had been ponce and victim lorenzo villacana. a week before the murders, ponce had gone to the encampment to fight villacana. girlfriend, victim vanessa malaepule, had oponce. ponce told her that on the night of the murders, ponce went back to the encampment to confront villacana. rafael accompanied him, and a third man drove. ponce shot villacana and his girlfriend, and rafael shot the remaining victims. when tanabe and ponce watched the news report on the murders, to throw out a pair of boots he had worn during the murders. a resident of the encampment also testified. at about 11:30 p.m. on the night of the murders, she heard an unfamiliar male voice asking her neighbor, victim hammid shraifat, she then heard multiple pairs of footsteps leading shraifat away. shortly thereafter, she heard gunshots. 4 later that night, the police found the bodies of the victims in and around tent. in a recorded phone call ponce made from jail to a friend, something during an interrogation. the prosecution also played for the jury 15 recorded clips of jailhouse informant. ponce was recorded in all 15 clips; rafael was on approximately half. about the murders and described how he covered his tracks, wiping his fingerprints from the bullets and getting rid of the two guns used. ponce , and the ponce described sneaking up on a man in the encampment, asking where l.v. was, following the man to location, instructing his companion to shoot at the same time he shot, telling the companion to aim for the head, and then shooting some of the victims while his companion shot the others. for them, and heard the shots. ponce and rafael were recorded discussing what evidence the police had against them. ponce described the lack of witnesses, the absence of the guns, and the wiped-down casings, when ponce noted that no one other than the perpetrators knew the details of what happe ponce said tand rafael rafael 5 five murders, rafael expressed surprise that the case carried the death penalty.3 the informant later praised rafael for killing people at the encampment, and ponce and rafael agreed the murders were necessary.4 both men bragged about how many people they had killed; shell casing, bullet fragments, and expended bullets were recovered from the crime scene. a ballistics analysis revealed that two guns were used: at least 13 rounds were fired from a 9-millimeter caliber firearm while a second handgun fired at least 3 ponce, not rafael, was charged with the death penalty. 4 if you had the balls to kill, and your homeboy hey, my boy, south side glorifies, south side, you know. business. [rafael]: yeah. [informant]: you did what you had to do, right? yes or no? exactly. [ponce]: it was[] that shit was deeper than what you know, my boy. [rafael]: ah really. [ponce]: real talk. [rafael]: alright. [ponce]: it was deeper than what you know, my boy. it just some shit, oh, we need to go over here and do. that shit was for a reason, my boy. [rafael]: 6 one .32 caliber bullet. police recovered no firearms connected to the killings. a gang expert testified that ponce and rafael were active activities included robberies, assaults, shootings, theft, and narcotics sales. in response to a hypothetical question based on the long beach murders, the expert opined that the murders intimidating potential witnesses against the gang. the jury convicted rafael and ponce on all counts, and returned true findings as to the gang enhancements and special circumstances. the jury found true the firearm enhancements with respect to the murders of neumeier and shraifat, and the kidnapping. the court sentenced rafael to five consecutive terms of life without the possibility of parole, plus two consecutive terms of 25 years to life for the firearm enhancements on the two murder counts, plus a consecutive term of 18 years for the kidnapping count. the court stayed the gang enhancements as to counts 1 through 5. the court also stayed the firearm enhancement as to the kidnapping count but imposed a 10-year gang enhancement added to the high term of eight years. rafael timely appealed. discussion rafael makes five arguments on appeal: (1) the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to sever his trial from ponce, (2) -of-court statements against rafael, (3) there was insufficient evidence that the primary activities of the nuthood watts gang were criminal acts, (4) the court s claim of privilege, and (5) rafael is 7 entitled to 362 more days of pre-sentence custody credits. respondent does not oppose arguments (4) and (5), therefore, we conclude are without merit. argument that the case must be remanded to allow the trial court to exercise its authority to impose or strike the gang enhancements as to counts 1 through 5. 1. the motion to sever trial was correctly denied rafael argues severance of the trial was mandated because he was prejudiced by his association with ponce, and the overwhelming evidence against ponce impermissibly bolstered a. the law jointly charged with any public offense, whether felony or misdemeanor, they must be tried jointly, unless the court order[s] expressed a (people v. bryant, smith and wheeler (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 379 (wheeler).) e [economy and] [citation.] when involving commothe court is presented classic case people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 40 (coffman).) that a joint trial would compromise a specific trial right of one of the defendants, or prevent the jury from making a reliable coffman, 8 supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 40.) , prejudicial association with codefendants, likely confusion resulting from evidence on multiple counts, conflicting defenses, or the possibility that at a separate trial a codefendant would [citations.] (wheeler, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. less drastic measures than severance, such as limiting instructions, often will suffice to cure coffman, at p. 40.) abuse of discretion based on the facts as they appeared at the time the court ruled on the motion. wheeler, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. in failing to grant severance, reversal is required only upon a showing that, to a reasonable probability, the defendant would have received a more favorable result in a separate trial. coffman, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 41.) b. trial court proceedings prior to trial, rafael moved to sever, pointing to the ainst ponce and arguing that evidence would taint rafael by association, and unfairly bolster the weak case against rafael. the prosecution opposed the motion, responding that, because the same evidence showed that rafael was equally culpable in the encampment murders, there was no guilt by association. the trial court denied the motion, reasoning that rafael and ponce were charged with the same -admissible. the court further found that evidence that ponce alone murdered tony bledsoe on a separate occasion would not unduly prejudice rafael 9 given that he and ponce were already accused of five separate murders. c. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying severance rafael argues that severance was required because the rafael. in support of this argument, rafael relies on identification of rafael as the second long beach killer to tanabe long beach and bledsoe murders. rafael also contends the joint trial was unfair because invited the jury to find rafael guilty by association. he argues the evidence against him was weak compared with that against ponce, the more senior member d not avoid being unfai we disagree. the record does not support the accusation that the jury elming compared to rafael that it would have convicted rafael simply because of their association. the evidence was that both defendants took an active role in the commission of the murders. ponce sought out rafael willingly accompanied him as he hunted villacana down. while ponce was executing villacana and his girlfriend, rafael gunned down all potential witnesses. although ponce gave vivid descriptions of his murders, and rafael was more taciturn, both made statements indicating they had committed multiple brutal murders. this was not a situation where one defendant was 10 marginally involved and the other defendant actively perpetrated the crimes. the case against ponce impermissibly bolstered the weak case against him. the case against rafael was not weak: he made multiple incriminating statements in jail, displaying knowledge of the long beach killings and bragging about his own murders. rafael t [he] was the second long beach killer based merely on the evidence that he was a junior member of srafael did not just indicate familiarity with the murders; rather, he agreed with said agreed and promised not to this evidence did not suggest that rafael was merely one of multiple junior gang members familiar with the murders; it strongly suggested he was the second shooter. moreover, that a joint trial may have made it more likely that rafael would be convicted is not itself a sufficient reason to mandate severance. defendants are constitutionally entitled to a fair trial, not one that gives them the best possible chance for an acquittal. an essential goal of a trial is that the fact finder determine what happened through a fundamentally fair and reliable process. . . . [s]everance is not required [] merely because properly joined charges might make it more difficult for a defendant to avoid conviction compared with his or her chances wheeler, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 381.) 11 rafael cites to people v. letner (2010) 50 cal.4th 99 in support of his argument that the prejudicial association with ponce necessitated separate trials. letner does not assist rafael. in letner, the defendants were charged with the same murder, and the trial court denied severance. (id. at p. 149.) the supreme court justified severance. (id. at p. 151.) the trial court summarized the evidence against the coboth defendants knew [the victim] was alone at her house and possessed a car and cash for the rent. both defendants were on the night of the murder, and their belongings were found in the trunk. they both provided conflicting accounts of where they were going. they subsequently abandoned the car, leaving their possessions inside, and fled. moreover, forensic evidence discovered at the scene and s involvement in the murder. finally, both defendants made statements that were self-incriminating . . . . ibid.) the letner court iquality of the evidence implicating one defendant compared to both defendants based upon the strength of the evidence against only onletner, supra, 50 cal.4th at pp. 153, 151.) the court further instructed at the conclusion of the guilt phase that it must consider separately the evidence against each defendant and reach a verdict as to each based solely upon the evidence 12 admitted against him. . . . [w]e presume the jury followed these instructions. id. at p. 152.) as in letner, the evidence implicating rafael and ponce was not so dissimilar that it created the likelihood the jury would convict rafael based only upon the strength of the evidence against ponce. both men made incriminating statements, both were in the same criminal street gang, and there was no physical evidence tying ponce, but not rafael, to the crime. the jury here was also repeatedly instructed to consider separately the evidence against each defendant. we presume the jury followed these instructions. (see coffman, supra, 34 cal.4th at pp. 4344.) lastly, in support of his separate argument that the joint trial deprived him of constitutional due process, rafael points to -of-court statements identifying rafael as the second killer. rafael argues this was inadmissible hearsay, and rendered his trial fundamentally unfair. as explained below, we reject the argument that the prosecution was able to present evidence against rafael in a joint trial that could not have been presented at a separate trial. considering all the circumstances before the trial court, the relevant factors weighed in favor of a joint trial: rafael and ponce were charged with the same crimes that they committed together, there was no danger of jury confusion, there were no conflicting defenses, and there was no suggestion that ponce would have provided testimony exonerating rafael had they been tried separately. (see wheeler, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 379.) dcrimes involving common events and victims;as such, this was a coffman, supra, 34 cal.4th at 13 p. 40.) accordingly, we find no abuse of discretion in the trial for the same reasons, the joint trial did not deprive rafael of his right to due process. 2. the admission of statements against interest was proper rafael contends the trial court prejudicially abused its discretion s to tanabe and the informant as statements against interest under evidence code section 1230. a. the law hearsay is generally inadmissible unless it falls under an exception. (evid. code,  1200, subd. (b).) one exception, found in evidence code section 1230, permits the admission of any statement that, . . so far subjected [the declarant] to the risk of . . . criminal liability . . . that a reasonable man in his position would not have made the statement unless he (evid. code,  1230.)5 -of-court declaration is such evidence must show that the declarant is [1] unavailable, that [2] 5 evidence of a statement by a declarant having sufficient knowledge of the subject is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a witness and the statement, when proprietary interest, or so far subjected him to the risk of civil or criminal liability, or so far tended to render invalid a claim by him against another, or created such a risk of making him an object of hatred, ridicule, or social disgrace in the community, that a reasonable man in his position would not have made the statement unless he believed it to be t 14 when made and that [3] the declaration was sufficiently reliable to warrant admission despite its h (people v. grimes (2016) 1 cal.5th 698, 711 (grimes).) we discuss each of the grimes elements next. unavailability of declarant. rafael does not challenge the implied finding that his codefendant ponce was legally unavailable. (see people v. fuentes (1998) 61 cal.app.4th 956, 961962 [a declarant who asserts his fifth amendment privilege the statute governing admissibility of declarations against interest].) against penal interest. evidence code section 1230 -serving or otherwise appear to . . . . . allow admission of non-self-inculpatory statements . . . made within a broader narrative that is generally self- (people v. gallardo (2017) 18 exculpatory (e.g., one which admits some complicity but places the major responsibility on others) does not meet the test of trustworthiness and is thus people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 612.) declarant and also inculpates the nondeclarant cannot be [citation.] our supreme court [has] explained, for example, that confession that, though not independently disserving of the - but inextricably tied to and part of a specific statement against 15 penal interest. (gallardo, supra, 18 cal.app.5th at p. 71.) a statement is self-inculpatory or not can only be determined by viewing the statement in context. (grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 716.). a account not just the words but the circumstances under which they were uttered, the possible motivation of the declarant, and the declarant (id. p. 711.) order to answer the ultimate question under evidence code section 1230: whether the statement, even if not independently inculpatory of the declarant, is nevertheless against the (id. at p. 716.) trustworthiness of the declaration. test for the determination of whether a statement is trustworthy and falls within the declaration against [penal] interest exception. the trial court must look to the totality of the circumstances in which the statement was made, whether the declarant spoke from personal knowledge, the possible motivation of the declarant, what was actually said by the people v. greenberger (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 298, 334.) b. standard of review admissible under evidence code section 1230 for abuse of grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 711.) 16 c. the trial court proceedings prior to trial, the prosecution moved to admit (1) statements to tanabe, (2) conversations with the codefendants, and (3) a clip from a recorded phone conversation between ponce and tanabe. rafael tanabe were unreliable, and the recordings were inadmissible hearsay. the trial court found the statements were trustworthy interests, and admitted them as declarations against interest. d. extrajudicial comments as statements against interest 1. the trial court gave individualized consideration to the challenged statements. rafael first objects to the method by which the trial court statements to the informant (not to tanabe) were admissible. rafael argues the trial court erred in making an overarching ruling that all the statements were admissible because the court was required to evaluate each statement individually. in support of this argument, rafael cites to gallardo, supra, 18 cal.app.5th 51. in gallardo, the trial court admitted the entire 40-page gallardo, supra, 18 cal.app.5th at p. 7(ibid.) the court of appeal concluded that the court prejudicially erred in admitting certain evidence, and in anticipation of a 17 inquiry to determine whether each statement the prosecution to warrant admission under evidence code section 1230. (id. at p. 77.) we agree with the principle expressed in gallardo but find the case distinguishable. here, the trial court did not admit pages of transcript without conducting an individualized review of the statements. the trial court admitted 15 clips of conversation totaling 41 pages out of hundreds of transcript pages. over 20 of the pages admitted were partial pages. the also indicate it reviewed the statements individually: for example, the court directed the prosecution to redact portions that were unduly prejudicial. the court complied with gallardo 2. the trial court properly admitted the statements rafael argues that atements to tanabe the perkins were not against interest because they were murder, and shifted blame to rafael.6 we first observe that rafaelthe same defect he claims, without justification, the trial court employed rafael lumps together all the jailhouse recorded statements and the statements to tanabe and argue none is 6 perkins operation we understand counsel to have been referring to illinois v. perkins (1990) 496 u.s. 292, 300 in which the united supreme court upheld the validity of jailhouse conversations between a suspect and an informant even without warnings under miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 18 admissible. this is demonstrably not so. for example, some of the admitted statements were made by rafael himself, e.g. rafael will not fold, overall rafael had committed a total of four murders, and his agreement that the murders were necessary. rafael contends that y was merely a collateral detail, just as the killing of three victims in collateral detailthe elimination of an tanabe testified that ponce claimed to be the instigator and leader of the plan to kill villacana and eliminate witnesses. it was ponce who fought with villacana, and it was ponceidea to go to the encampment to exact revenge on him. that ponce told tanabe that rafael accompanied him, shooting three of the victims because they were witnesses to was not collateral it directly inculpated ponce as an aider and abettor to those murders in addition to the murders that ponce personally committed. a declaran sever and excise the rest . . . grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 717.) the jailhouse recordings. with respect to the recorded conversations played for the jury, we observe first that in his appellate briefs rafael references only two specific statements he contends should not be admitted: on a presumably rafael whose moniker was chatowas 19 anything under the the first excerpt was self-inculpatory and did not assign greater blame to rafael or shift responsibility to him. rather, examined concern that in some way. it did not directly point to rafael as the perpetrator of three murders. ponce told his friend, reassure him: naw . . nt that the police showed tanabe ( picture, ponce said this in the context of recounting how he first told tanabe about the murders over the phone. the police had recorded that phone call, and played it for tanabe. as on the other occasions in which ponce bragged about his crimes, in this excerpt, ponce casts himself as primarily responsible for the killings: handled business . . . you will see it on the news . . . i did that . . . i made it around home base five different times . . . my little homey[] . . . was with me that did that shit . . . .the statement orchestrating the killings. as to the jailhouse recordings generally, rafael cites to gallardo, supra, 18 cal.app.5th 51 for the proposition that a culpabilid. at p. 74.) in gallardo, a defendant identified two of his codefendants as participants in shooting. (id. at p. 73.) 20 in a conversation with jailhouse informants, the speaker said his codefendants committed the shooting while he waited around the . (id. at pp. 7374.) the court of appeal concluded the statements were too self-serving and interest. (ibid.) [] had occurred . . id. at p. 74.) this is not gallardo. hereplace the major responsibility on rafael. far from it in statements to both tanabe and the informant, ponce consistently portrayed himself as the principal actor and mastermind of five heinous killings, and rafael as the younger gang member following his lead. his identification of rafael as the other shooter was tied to his description of the murders as carried out jointly by both of them. he did not attempt to minimize his role in the murder, rather he cast himself as the hardened criminal and rafael as the novice taking direction from him. (see people v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th 101.) nothing he said shifted culpability away from him. essentially, even though he shot only two people, ponce proudly proclaimed to the mastermind of five murders in all, including three committed by rafael. for example, ponce consistently claimed the murders were his idea: it was his plan to murder villacana, and ponce directed rafael to shoot at the same time and to aim for the head. the circumstances in which the statements were made also do not provide reason to believe that ponce made the statements to deflect responsibilityhe was bragging about having committed murder, s in order to 21 . the two even discussed how many murders they had committed. rafael neither minimized his own role in the murders nor mitigated his own blameworthiness. rafael argues that the statements were not trustworthy because ponce had a motive to shift blame to rafael due to the culture of having younger gang members accept blame for crimes committed by senior members. berating rafael for not accepting responsibility for the firearm seized by the police when they were arrested in 2010. in that conversation, ponce explained that rafael, presumably having a lesser criminal record than ponce, would serve less time for the crime. the court in grimes similarly a criminal street gang, for example, may choose to take the fall for fellow gang members by making a confession that exculpates them. (grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 716.) this purported practice in gang culture has no application identified rafael as his partner in crime as a rehearsal for potential even if there was some benefit to ponce when ponce said rafael committed three murders, at most that benefit was within the gang culture alone. it had nothing to ponce had placed himself squarely on the hook for all five murders. lastly, even if we were to assume the trial court improperly admitted some of the statements, rafael cannot show a more favorable outcome would have been reasonably probable if this evidence had been excluded. (see people v. masters (2016) 22 62 cal.4th 1019, 1064.) rafael discussed the details of the encampment murders with ponce, swore to keep the information secret, agreed that the murders were necessary, worried about the investigation, and compared how many kills he had relative to ponce. any error was undoubtedly harmless. 3. substantial evidence supports the gang enhancement rafael argues the prosecution failed to prove that the nuthood watts gang is a criminal street gang as defined in section 186.22, subdivision (f) because there was insufficient acts defined in subdivision (e). a. the law the california street terrorism enforcement and prevention act (step act;  186.20, et seq.) provides for enhanced punishment for . . . committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4).) as relevant here, the step act mandates a 10-year term for enumerated violent felonies, such as murder and kidnapping. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c); 677.5, subds. (c)(1) & (c)(14).) section 190.2, in turn, sets forth a special circumstance for a sentence of death or life without the possibility of parole if, was an active participant in a criminal street gang . . . and the murder was carried out to further the activities of the criminal ( 190.2, subd. (a)(22).) both section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) and section 190.2, subdivision (a)(22) require the prosecution to establish the as is relevant here, to 23 activities must be the commission of one or more of certain crimes listed in the gang statute. ( 186.22, subd. (f); people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 322 (sengpadychith).) cons members consistently and repeatedly have committed criminal activity listed in the gang statute. also sufficient might be expert testimony, as occurred in [people v.] gardeley [(1996)] 14 cal.4th 605 . . . . there, . . . [t]he gang expert based his opinion on conversations he had with [the investigations of hundreds of crimes committed by gang police department and other law enforcement agencies. sengpadychith, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 324.) we review a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence to support an enhancement under the substantial evidence standard. (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 5960.) b. trial court proceedings a gang expert testified about the nuthood watts gang for the prosecution, and opined that ponce and rafael were members of the gang. according to this expert, shootings . . . that may lead to murder, vehicle thefts, narcotic sales, dockets of criminal convictions, the expert opined that those crimes were committed by nuthood watts gang members. when presented with a hypothetical situation similar to the long beach murders, the expert opined that the murders benefitted the 24 intimidating potential witnesses. c. substantial evidence supports the rafael argues the prosecution did not provide sufficient evidence of nut primary criminal activities because the gang expert provided only a (1) his (2) gave the offenses he l the long beach murders, and (3) did not indicate what his involvement was with those predicates . we conclude the gang expert established adequate foundation for his opinion, and substantial evidence supports the finding that ies included the crimes enumerated in section 186.22, subdivision (f).7 the gang expert provided a sufficient factual basis for his justice, had completed 40 hours of training in gangs, testified as a gang expert on 15 prior occasions, and had made personal contact with thousands of gang members. he had monitored the nuthood watts gang as one of the gangs in his jurisdiction, was familiar with the nuthood watts gang symbols, and knew the -by-street boundaries. 7 respondent contends that rafael has forfeited the rgument is intertwined with the claim that there was insufficient evidence of the gang enhancements, we will address the foundation point as well. 25 in support of the argument that the expert failed to lay a foundation for his opinions, rafael relies on in re alexander l. (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 605, which reversed a gang enhancement foundation. alexander l. is distinguishable. in that case, a gang expert testified that he knew that gang had been involved in certain crimes, but did not state how he knew. (id. at p. circumstances of these crimes, or where, when, or how [the id. at pp. 611612.) the were. (ibid.) here, by contrast, primary activities included robberies, assaults, shootings, theft, and narcotics sales. the expert also explained that his opinion was based on information he obtained while working in the ang unit and monitoring the nuthood watts gang. this evidence (see people v. prunty (2015) 62 practices, including homicide, assault, and firearms offensessengpadychith, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 324 may be satisfied by an expert testimony that statutorily there is no requirement that a gang expert give specific examples of the primary criminal activities or discuss specific investigations in which he had been involved in order t (cf. 26  186.22, subd. (e) established by two or more incidents].) 4. review of the sealed transcript rafael requests, and respondent does not object to, this cdetective hardiman supervised the perkins operation in which an undercover informant recorded his conversations with ponce and rafael. detective hardiman claimed that aspects of that operation were privileged under evidence code sections 1040 and 1042. the trial court reviewed the privilege claim in camera. we have reviewed the record and conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in rejecting disclosure of the materials. (see people v. landry (2016) 2 cal.5th 52, 74.) 5. remand for limited resentencing respondent argues that the trial court erred by staying the 10-year section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) gang enhancement in counts 1 through 5 because the enhancement is mandatory and must be imposed when found true unless the trial court strikes it in the interests of justice under section 186.22, subdivision (g). (people v. le (2015) 61 cal.4th 416, 423.) we agree that remand is required to allow the court to decide whether to impose the gang enhancement or strike it. section 186.22, the gang enhancement statute, rovides different levels of enhancement for the base felony if that felony benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members. . . ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) if the base felony qualifies as a violent felony under the list of felony crimes contained in 27  186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c).) . . . it is also important to note that the sentence enhancements in section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) are mandatoryall three provisions le, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 423.) the trial court erred by imposing and staying execution of the gang enhancement. under section 186.22, the trial court was people v. vega (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 1387, 1396.) discretion to punishment for the enhancement[ ] . . . in an unusual case where the interests of justice would best be served, if the court specifies on the record and enters into the minutes the circumstances indicating that the interests of justice would best be served ( 186.22, subd. (g).) although it may be stricken, the (vega, at p. 1397.) we therefore vacate the stay of the gang enhancement and direct the trial court on remand as to each count either to impose the enhancement or to strike it. (people v. lua (2017) 10 cal.app.5th 1004, 10201021.) if the court chooses to strike one or more of the gang enhancements, it must state its reasons for doing so on the record in accordance with section 186.22, subdivision (g). 6. rafael is entitled to 362 additional days of custody credits rafael argues, respondent concedes, and we agree that he is entitled to 362 additional days of pre-sentence custody credit. rafael was arrested on june 24, 2011 and sentenced2,400 days 28 lateron january 18, 2018. however, he was only given 2,039 days of pre-sentence custody credits. he is therefore entitled to an additional 362 days of custody credits. (see people v. browning (1991) 233 cal.app.3d 1410, 1412 [sentencing court must grant a defendant actual time credits both for the day of arrest and the day of sentencing.].) disposition the case is remanded for limited resentencing to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion to impose or strike the gang enhancements as to counts 1 through 5 in accordance with section 186.22, subdivision (g). the trial court is ordered to of pre-sentence custody credits. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. rubin, p. j. we concur: baker, j. moor, j. 