filed 11/26/19 p. v. brown ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert brown et al., defendants and appellants. b287726 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba450278) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, stephen marcus, judge. affirmed in part, vacated in part, and remanded with directions. robert d. bacon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant robert brown. cannon & harris and donna l. harris, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant devonte daquan darden. 2 mark yanis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant prentiss bates. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and marc a. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________________ introduction a jury convicted appellants robert brown, prentiss bates, and devonte daquan darden of multiple offenses related to the shooting and killing of a fellow gang member. the trial court sentenced brown and bates each to a total term of 80 years to life in state prison, and darden to a total term of 50 years to life in state prison. on appeal, appellants challenge their convictions and sentences, asserting evidentiary errors, instructional errors, juror misconduct, and other legal errors. additionally, brown and bates argue we should remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion under senate bill no. 1393 (2017-2018 reg. sess.; sb 1393) whether to strike their enhancements for prior serious felony convictions. finding no infirmity in the verdict, we affirm the appellants firearm enhancements under penal code section 3 12022.53, subdivision (d)1 must be stricken due to instructional error. we also agree that the trial court erroneously applied gang enhancements under section 186, subdivision (b)(1)(c). finally, we agree that the matter must be remanded for the court to exercise its discretion whether to strike prior serious felony conviction enhancements as to brown and bates. background a. the charges the los angeles county district attorney charged appellants, along with co-defendants james williams and malcolm cosey, with: first degree murder of trevon lark (count 1;  187, subd. (a)), conspiracy to commit murder (count 2;  182, subd. (a)(1)), and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle (count 3;  246). brown was further charged with possession of a firearm by felon (count 4;  29800, subd. (a)(1)). as relevant here, as to counts 1 and 2, the information also included firearm enhancement allegations under section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (d) (hereafter section 12022.53(c) and section 12022.53(d), respectively). as to count 3, the information included gang enhancement allegations under section 186.22, subdivisions (b)(1)(b) & (c). as to brown and bates, the information included allegations of a prior conviction qualifying as a strike under 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 4 section 667, subdivisions (b)-(j) and as a prior serious felony under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). b. evidence at trial a. the shooting appellants, co-defendants williams and cosey, and victim lark were all members of the hoover gang. in the early hours of august 29, 2015, the group attended a party at a marijuana dispensary in los angeles. also present was hoover gang member demarreah gilbert. -- a brief exchange, brown and darden left the party and returned with guns. appellants, lark, williams, and cosey then got into three cars and drove out to kill rival gang members. appellants got into a black mercedes, cosey and an unidentified man occupied another car, and williams and lark occupied a third. brown and darden had handguns, and lark had an m16 rifle. williams did not have a gun. it was unclear whether appellants knew williams and lark were joining them. the three cars drove to the area of the 104th st. and broadway st. intersection, at which point, after spotting the car containing lark and williams, brown and darden opened fire, riddling the car with bullets and hitting lark in the chest. williams drove back to the dispensary, where he began performing cpr on lark. lark died a short time later. when gilbert, who had witnessed the scene outside 5 the dispensary, returned inside, he saw handguns on the floor and placed them on a shelf. he did not know if appellants had returned to the dispensary. b. in may 2016, police detained gilbert for reasons unrelated to this case. gilbert told the officers he had statement to los angeles police department detective matthew courtney. gilbert told courtney about the events before and after the shooting, and described appellants leaving the party before the shooting in a white mercedes. officers released gilbert shortly after he gave his statement to courtney. in september, police arrested gilbert in connection with the shooting. gilbert then gave another recorded statement to courtney, hoping his cooperation would lead to his release. instead, gilbert remained in custody and was murder. in june 2017, as part of ongoing plea discussions, gilbert provided a recorded proffer statement to prosecutors. he described events before and after the shooting in a manner generally consistent with his prior statements. gilbert relayed his impression that lark was he was high. he claimed, for the first time, that cosey went 6 out first to scout for rival gang members before the group embarked on the shooting mission. he also suggested that appellants drove in a black mercedes, contrary to his initial statement. gilbert proceeded to describe events occurring in the period following the shooting. according to gilbert, the day after the shooting, he attended a meeting intended to allow bates to explain his actions. bates stated he had been the about a month after the shooting, gilbert encountered darden, who stated it had been a case of mistaken identity, and that he had fired only because brown fired first. a few months after the shooting, gilbert heard brown tell . . . after his proffer statement, gilbert and the prosecution reached a plea agreement, under which he was to testify at trial. at trial, he testified generally in accord with his prior statements. however, gilbert disavowed his statement that cosey went out to scout for rival gang members and initial statement to courtney. his recorded proffer statement was later played to the jury. c. and testimony in june 2016, detective courtney conducted a recorded interview of travis washington, a hoover gang member who had not attended the party on the night of the shooting. 7 washington explained he had been sentenced to four years in prison for robbery, but hoped to find a way to be released or have his sentence reduced. he stated that brown told him about the shooting, including that brown was the waccording to washington, brown claimed appellants had believed it contained rival gang members. washington believed appellants were not aware that lark and williams had joined them. washington further claimed that bates and darden each later gave him similar accounts of the events. at trial, washington denied making the recorded statement. his recorded statement was later played to the 2 d. the verdicts and sentences the jury found appellants guilty as charged, and found true all enhancement allegations. however, the jury completely acquitted both williams and cosey. in a 2 the prosecution also introduced facebook messages and recorded wiretapped conversations between appellants and others in which appellants made incriminating statements, and each side presented expert testimony on gangs and bullet trajectory. because appellants do not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence, we do not describe this evidence in detail. 8 bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found that bates and brown had each suffered a prior conviction qualifying as both a strike and a prior serious felony. the trial court sentenced bates to a total of 80 years to life in prison as to count 1: 25 years to life for the offense, doubled to 50 for the strike, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53(d), plus five years for the prior serious felony under section 667, subdivi-sion (a)(1). the court imposed the same sentence as to count 2, but stayed it under section 654. on count 3, the court imposed a concurrent sentence of 15 years in prison: five years for the offense, plus 10 years for the gang enhancement under section 186.22(b)(1)(c). as to brown, the court imposed a similar sentence, with the addition of a concurrent sentence of seven years in prison for count 4. the trial court sentenced darden to a total of 50 years to life in prison for count 1: 25 to life for the offense, plus 25 to life for the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53(d). here, too, the court imposed the same sentence as to count 2 but stayed it under section 654. as with brown and bates, the court imposed a concurrent sentence of 15 years in prison: five years for the offense, plus 10 years for the gang enhancement under section 186.22(b)(1)(c). this appeal followed. 9 discussion a. challenges to the convictions 1. evidentiary challenges we review state-evidentiary rulings for abuse of discretion. (see people v. goldsmith not disturb the trial coutrial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest ibid.question whether admission of the evidence was people v. mayo (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 535, 553.) a. i. background washington did not wish to testify at trial. when asked on the stand if he promised to tell the truth, washington respon the prosecutor began asking washington a series of questions about detective courtney, who had taken his recorded statement and was in the courtroom. the prosecutor asked if washington knew courtney, if he had ever seen or spoken with courtney before, or if courtney had visited him while he was in custody and recorded a 10 conversation with him. to each of these questions, continued, washington similarly denied that courtney had shown him photographs of appellants and their codefendants, which the prosecutor presented to him in court. and after confirming that he either was or had been a member of the hoover gang and identifying his particular photographs as hoover members. on cross-examination, defense counsel elicited gave his statement), he was in jail after having been convicted of an offense and sentenced to state prison. in having lie . . . to say that [he] talked to the detectives to avoid going there were any reason his voice would be heard in a recorded conversation with courtney. he replied there was not. on the following day, the parties discussed the tape of his recorded statement to the jury. defense counsel objected that admitting the recorded statement under the confrontation clause and added that the tape was statement into evidence, which the prosecution later did 11 in his motion for a new trial, which the court denied. ii. analysis rior statement was not subject to the inconsistent-statement exception to the with his or her trial testimony is admissible to establish the truth of the matter asserted in the statement under the code] section 1235 is that the statement in fact be in effect, rather than contradiction in express . . . .3 (people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 462, fn. & italics omitted.) 3 evidence code section 1235 provides: vidence of a statement made by a witness is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement is inconsistent with his testimony at the hearing and is offered in compliance with [evidence code] unless the interests of justice otherwise require, extrinsic evidence of a statement made by a witness that is inconsistent with any part of his testimony at the hearing shall be excluded unless: [] (a) the witness was so examined while testifying as to give him an opportunity to explain or to deny the statement; or [] (b) the (fn. continued on the next page.) 12 statement is inconsistent with that statementfor purposes of evidence code section 1235. (see people v. zapien (1993) 4 -of-court statement of the [witness] that defendant had come to her house the morning of the murder with blood on his person . . . is inconsistent with her denial at trial that she had made such a people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 859 (homickid. at p. 860; accord, people v. rios (1985) 163 cal.app.3d 852, 860-861, 864 (rios) [where witnesses refused to answer any substantive question, there was no testimony from which to infer or imply inconsistency].) constituted a complete refusal to testify. while acknowled-ging he answered every question the prosecutor asked him, they contend his answers to questions about his statement taken [his] answers as assertions of fact . . . .we disagree. washington expressly denied knowing or ever meeting witness has not been excused from giving further testimony in 13 courtney, expressly denied giving a statement to courtney, and expressly denied recognizing appellants and their codefendants as hoover gang members. in contrast, he confirmed his own affiliation with the hoover gang and identified the relevant local set. rather than refuse to testify, washington simply decided to deny his prior statement. (cf. rios, supra, 163 cal.app.3d at pp. 860-861 & fn. 2, 864 [no inconsistency where witnessei refuse to answer . . .question] (id. at p. 861, fn. 2).) in short, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the recording of 4 (see homick, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 859.) 4 appellants argue that even if appropriate under california t violated their confrontation rights under the federal constitution because his blanket denials of the statement deprived them of a reasonable opportunity to cross-examine him. our supreme court has previously rejected an identical claim. (see people v. dement (2011) 53 cal.4th 1, 23-not deprive defendant of opportunity for effective cross-examination], abrogated on another ground by people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192.) in a footnote in his opening brief, bates argues the prosecution failed to give washington an opportunity to explain or deny his recorded statement as evidence code section 770 requires. he has forfeited this contention by failing to include it in the body of his brief. (see sabi v. sterling (2010) 183 (fn. continued on the next page.) 14 b. -examination i. background as the only witness to events before and after the during his direct examination, gilbert admitted having lied during his proffer when he described cosey scouting for rival gang members before the shooting. on further questioning, proffer statement, explaining that he had done so because he during his cross-examination gilbert admitted that while he was a gang member, if a police officer asked him about crimes committed by other gang members, he would lie to the officer. counsel also courtney when he told courtney that car was white. gilbert explained he had lied so he would not have to testify. as his cross-examination continued, gilbert testified he had recently been convicted of attempted burglary. in response to counselsuffered sustained juvenile charges for robbery and grand meritless, given that washington actually denied making the statement and the court asked him if there were any reason his voice would be heard in a recorded conversation with detective courtney. 15 theft. the prosecutor objected to the introduction of at a sidebar, the trial court noted that defense counsel should have first sought a ruling on the admissibility of those charges. counsel then informed the court he also wished to question gilbert on an unsustained juvenile charge for giving false identification information to an officer. during the discussion with the parties, the court told he had never used any other name, and asked to cross-examine him on the use of a false name, again referring to the unsustained juvenile charge. but the court refused to --] icted of it. [] in his subsequent motion for a new trial, brown -examination of gilbert violated his rights under both california law and the federal constitution. as noted, the court denied the motion for a new trial. ii. analysis -arge constituted an abuse of discretion and violated their 16 confrontation rights under the federal constitution. under evidence code section 352, trial courts have discretion to substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing itude may suggest a willingness to liepeople v. wheeler (1992) 4 prior conduct involving moral turpitude whether or not it exercise o(people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 931 (clark), fn. impeachment is limited at the outset by the relevance requirement of moral turpitude. beyond this, the latitude [evidence code] section 352 allows for exclusion of id. at p. 931.) our supreme court has recognized that misconduct immoral character or dishonesty and may involve problems involving proof, unfair surprise, and the evaluation of moral clark, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 931-932.) road as necessary to deal with the great variety of factual situations in which the issue 17 id. at p. 932.) ile charge was powerful and direct evidence of his willingness to lie. credibility of a prosecution witness is so fundamental that it should not be abridged by concern about the consumption of time unlappellants sought to introduce was indeed cumulative of admitted willingness to lie. -shooting scouting trip on cross-examination, gilbert admitted that while he was a gang member, if a police officer asked him about crimes committed by other gang members, he would lie to the officer. he also admpolice about the color of car in order to avoid testifying. as for his criminal history, gilbert admitted he had suffered a conviction for attempted robbery and sustained juvenile charges for robbery and grand theft. the jury was thus lie, including to authorities. as the trial court noted, credibility. evidence of an unsustained juvenile charge would have been of trivial additional value, and the court did not abuse its discretion in determining that cross-examination regarding this charge would consume 18 time and effort substantially in excess of any probative value.5 (see clark, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 931-932; people v. leonard (2014) 228 cal.app.4th 465, 497 [trial court did probative value].) nor have appellants established a confrontation tion includes the right to cross-examine adverse witnesses on wide latitude insofar as the confrontation clause is concerned to impose reasonable limits on such cross- in particular, notwithstanding the confrontation clause, a trial court may restrict cross-examination of an adverse witness on the grounds stated in limitation on cross-examination pertaining to the credibility of a witness does not violate the confrontation clause unless a reasonable jury might have received a significantly 5 bates contends the trial court erroneously believed that conduct not resulting in a conviction or juvenile adjudication could never be used to show moral turpitude. in fact, the court did not charge was inadmissible as a matter of law. rather, the court properly considered that the charge was unsustained in evaluating its probative value under evidence code section 352. (see clark, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 931-932 [misconduct other than a prior conviction is generally less probative of dishonesty].) 19 excluded cross-people v. quartermain (1997) 16 cal.4th 600, 623-624 (quartermain).) here, evidence that gilbert, who had admitted to lying to law enforcement authorities about material details in this case, may have lied to an officer on an unrelated matter, would not have given a reasonable jury a significantly different impression of his credibility. (see quartermain, supradishonest conduct would not have changed a reasonable jur-examination. 2. claims of instructional error in challenging their convictions, appellants claim the trial court erred in refusing to give the jury an instruction on voluntary intoxication and a special cautionary instruction about witnesses who give information to authorities while in people v. selivanov (2016) 5 cal.app.5th 726, 751 (selivanov).) turn. a. voluntary intoxication instruction i. background darden and brown contend the trial court erred in refusing to instruct the jury on voluntary intoxication. in one of his police statements, gi 20 during his proffer interview, gilbert opined that lark was not seriously because he was high -- gilbert thought brown had used cocaine. washington also referenced drug use in his turned up [with] ecstas caljic no. 4.21.1, which instructs the jury to consider a requisite specific intent for the charged crimes. though counsel did not elaborate, it appears his position was that this instruction would be relevant to the murder charge, which required proof of a specific intent to kill. (e.g., people v. nelson (2016) 1 cal.5th 513, 544.) the court declined to give the requested instruction, concluding there was no substantial evidence to support that darden was unable to form the specific intent to kill. ii. analysis a defendant is entitled to a voluntary intoxication nce of the people v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263, 295 (verdugo).) evidence that the defendant was intoxicated 21 is not enough. (see ibid.; see also people v. olivas (2016) 248 cal.app.4th 758, 772 (olivas) [evidence that defendant may have been drunk at time of offenses was insufficient to trial to demonstrate how [his] intoxication might have resulted in his inability to formulate the specific intent people v. marshall, (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 848 (marshall), our supreme court ed murders was not entitled to a voluntary intoxication according to the court, testimony that the defendant seemed -ibid.) to establish their entitlement to a voluntary intoxication instruction, darden and brown point to in part because brown was high, and his statement that that accohad taken ecstasy pills before the shooting. this evidence did not entitle darden or brown to a voluntary intoxication instruction. while there was some evidence to support that brown and others in the group were intoxicated, no evidence tended to show that their 22 intoxication prevented them from forming the specific intent visible signs of the others at the party. but the possibility that the men were noticeably intoxicated is insufficient to support a conclusion that their drug use prevented them from forming the requisite specific intent. (see marshall, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 848.) accordingly, the trial court did not err in declining to instruct the jury on voluntary intoxication. (see verdugo, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 295; olivas, supra, 248 cal.app.4th at p. 772.) b. cautionary instruction on witnesses who provide information while in custody i. background give a special cautionary instruction regarding the believa-en he provided his or obtained a benefit in exchange for the information.6 the 6 believability of a witness who was in jail when he provided his information to the police or the prosecutor, you may consider whether the witness was given a benefit after he provided his information, such as his release from jail or . . . receiving an (fn. continued on the next page.) 23 trial court declined to give the instruction, concluding that no authority required such an instruction and that the same concepts would be conveyed by caljic no. 2.20, which the no. 2.20 stated that in determining the believability of a a tendency reasonably to prove or disprove the truthfulness of the testimony of the witness, including but not limited to any of the following: [] . . . [] the existence or nonexistence of a bias, interest, or other motive; [] . . . [] the attitude of the witness toward this action or toward the giving of testimony . . . [;] [] . . . [] [whether] the witness [was] promised leniency in exchange for his or her ii. analysis on appeal, all three appellants contend the court erred in refusing to give the requested instruction on the testimony of witnesses who were in custody when they provided information to authorities. a trial court must agreement by the prosecutor to recommend leniency at the future sentencing. [] in determining the believability of a witness, who was in jail when he provided his information to the police or the prosecutor, you may consider whether the witness was asking for a reduced sentence in exchange for his giving information, even though he was not successful in 24 connected to the facts and that are necessary for the jupeople v. mora and rangel (2018) 5 cal.5th 442, 498-499 (mora).) the court may refuse reasons, the pid. at p. 499.) the trial court correctly concluded that the requested special instruction would have been duplicative. the court instructed the jury with caljic no. 2.20, advising it that in determining the believability of a witness, the jury was attitude of the witness toward this action or toward the instruction sufficiently covered the concepts appellants wished to convey to the jury. (see people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1020 (hovarter) [where trial court instructed jury with caljic no. 2.20, requested cautionary instruction on testimony of informer who seeks immunity was duplicative and thus unwarranted].) in arguing the court was nevertheless required to give the requested instruction, appellants submit that gilbert anwitnesses for whom a cautionary instruction is a trial 25 court to instruct the jury to view with caution the testimony --- codefendant, percipient witness, accomplice, or coconspirator whose testimony is based upon statements made by the defendant while both the defendant and the informant are 1127a, subds. (a) & (b).) appellants acknowledge that gilbert and washington -part because their testimony and statements were not based on statements any defendant made while in custody. however, citing people v. bivert (2011) 52 cal.4th 96, 120-121 (bivertout witnesses who claim that the defendant made statements to them about things of which the witness has no first-appellants argue that gilbert and washington fit that to their testimonies and statements and required the requested cautionary instruction. we disagree. in bivert, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 120-121, our supreme court rejected a claim that the trial court was required to give a cautionary instruction on the testimony of in-custody percipient witnesses. the court reasoned in-custody informant witnesses and in-custody percipient witnesses. (id. at p. 121.) examining the legislative history of section 1127a, the bivert 26 legislature acted in response to a highly publicized case in los angeles in which a jailhouse informant, through nefarious means and by posing on the jailhouse telephone as an investigator, convinced law enforcement officers and investigators that he was in legitimate need of confidentially held information about an ongoing criminal case. he later used this information to testify falsely to having heard a received favorable treatment in his own case in exchange for id. at p. 120.) according to the court, in its distinction between in-custody percipient witnesses and in-ibid., italics omitted.) while bivert focused on the distinction between in-custody informants and in-custody percipient witnesses, as was relevant to that case, section 1127a similarly distinguishes between in-custody informants and inmates who testify to statements made outside of any correctional requested instruction, and refusal to give it. 3. juror misconduct a. background o alleged misconduct by one of the jurors. at the beginning of trial, the court instructed the jurors to report to the bailiff any attempt to influence a juror. the court further advised them 27 that they were not to inform other jurors about such an incide. . . following trial, after the jury began deliberating, the court informed the parties that juror no. 3, the foreperson, had reported to the bailiff that he had observed a note beside summoned juror no. 3 and questioned him about the juror no. 3 recounted that the previous day, as he walked into the courtroom after a wion the juror no. 3 then reported he was the only juror who had seen the note -- he had asked the other jurors in the deliberation room that he had violated its instruction not to discuss such issues with other jurors, juror no. 3 responded he had not thought he had violated the order because the discussion occurred in the deliberation room, addingif they saw it or not? instruction not to g happened to disregard the incident and be fair and impartial, juror no. 3 28 nted it on the record. ke a decision based solely on the evidence presented at trial, after the trial court excused juror no. 3counsel informed the court that it was brown who had relayed that brown had told her he was passing the note and showing it to the other defendants. according to counsel, the trial court individually polled the other jurors about the incident. each of the jurors confirmed he or she had not seen the note but had heard about it. no juror expressed concern about the incident, and in response to the impartial, and promised to disregard the incident and make a decision based only on the evidence. after the trial court finished questioning the jurors, ounsel asked the court to remove juror no. 3 based the disregard the incident and be fair and impartial, and finding him credible. the court also noted that juror no. 3 had promptly informed the bailiff of the incident and found that he had discussed the matter with other jurors only to investigate the matter before reporting it to the court. 29 counsel for several of the defendants moved for a already nervousnote as an implied threat and had been intimidated by the incident. the trial court denied the mistrial motions. it noted that the jurors hesitation, and it therefore found the jurors credible. the court concluded all the jurors, including juror no. 3, could perform their duties and had not been affected or prejudiced in any way. in his subsequent motion for a new trial, brown argued the court erred in refusing to remove juror no. 3. as noted, the court denied this motion. b. analysis on appeal, appellants assert the trial court erred in failing to declare a mistrial after the jurors learned about the incident, and in failing to remove juror no. 3 for reporting the incident to the other jurors. they also claim the court should have investigated further to determine if any juror was frightened by the incident, and should have instructed the jurors that bates was not involved in it. must determine . . . whether misconduct occurred and, if it did, whether the misconduct was prejudicialpeople v. loot (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 694, 697.) if misconduct 30 be rebutted by a showing no prejudice actually occurred or determine whether there is a reasonable probability of ibid.whether misconduct was prejudicial, the trial court must determine whether there exists a substantial likelihood that some extrinsic material or information improperly (people v. dorsey (1995) 34 cal.app.4th 694, 704.) to render a verdict based on the evidence presented in court, the juror is impartial. [citation.] if, on the other hand, the juror forms an opinion so strong that the court is of the belief it cannot be set aside . . (mora, supra, 5 cal.5th 442, 485.) ng on each of these questions and its rulings will not be disturbed absent a people v. perez (1992) 4 witnesses and to resolve conflicts in the testimony is vested in the trial court, and its findings of fact . . . must be upheld in re carpenter (1995) 9 cal.4th 634, 646 (carpenter).) should have either granted a mistrial or removed juror no. 3 jurors. we need not decide whether juror no. 3 committed 31 misconduct, as we conclude that any presumption of prejudice was adequately rebutted.7 appellants advance two main arguments regarding prejudice from the incident. first, they contend juror no. later in rationalizing his actions rather than apologizing to the court, demonstrated he was unable or unwilling to follow we disagree. during his colloquy that he could be a fair and impartial juror, disregard the incident, and base his decision solely on the evidence. the court found juror no. 3 credible and, noting that he had promptly informed the bailiff of the incident, found he had discussed the matter with other jurors only to determine if they had seen the note so he could report his findings to the court. these findings, which we must accept (see carpenter, supra, 9 cal.4th at p. 646), amply support juror. (cf. people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 855, 857 (harris) [trial court did not abuse its discretion in retaining juror who told other jurors defendant had tried to intimidate her; juror stated she could remain fair and impartial, and there was no contrary evidence].) 7 the trial court did not expressly mention the presumption knows and follows the law, until the contrary is shopeople v. bush (2016) 245 cal.app.4th 992, 1002.) appellants do not contend the court failed to apply the presumption. 32 second, appellants claim the incident may have intimidated the jurors, as they could have taken the note as a threat by appellants that they had better acquit them. the record belies this inference. the court polled each of the jurors about the incident. their answers reflected that the matter was discussed only briefly. other than juror no. 3, no juror had seen the note. no juror relayed any concern about the incident. and each confirmed he or she could be fair and impartial, would disregard the incident, and would make a decision based only on the evidence introduced at trial. the court noted the jurors had answered its questions conclusion that the incident caused no prejudice was eminently reasonable. (cf. harris, supra, 57 cal.4th at pp. 855, 857 [denial of mistrial was not abuse of discretion indicated the incident would impair his or her ability to be mora, supra, 5 cal.5th at pp. 481, 485 mother told juror charges had been set up and he had rejected plea bargain; juror assured court she could set aside what she had been told].) given the lack of prejudice from the incident, the trial court was not required to instruct the jurors that bates was not involved in writing or displaying the note. and given the credibility in describing their knowledge of the incident and 33 their ability to disregard it and remain fair and impartial, the court was not required to further investigate whether the incident frightened the jurors. in short, we perceive no 8 b. sentencing challenges sentencing decisions, including the applicability of an enhancement under undisputed facts, de novo. (see people v. warren (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 899, 908.) 1. firearm enhancements under section 12022.53(d) i. background the murder and conspiracy charges, included firearm enhancements of 25 years to life under section 12022.53(d). and intentionally discharges a firearm and proximately causes great bodily injury . . . or death, to any person other felonies, including murder. ( 12022.53(d).) 8 bates and brown argue that the combined effect of the errors they allege in challenging their convictions requires reversal. as discussed, we have found no errors to cumulate. (hovarter, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1030 [rejecting claim of cumulative error because the court found no errors].) 34 his provision did not include an assertion that lark was not an accomplice. when the trial court instructed the jury on this enhance-ment using caljic no. 17.19.5, the pattern instruction omitted than an 9 the verdict forms similarly made no reference to the requirement that lark not be an accomplice for purpose of this enhancement. as to each appellant, the jury found true the allegations related to this enhancement under both the murder charge and the conspiracy charge. at sentencing, appellants objected to the application of the enhancement under section 12022.53(d), arguing for the first time that lark was an accomplice as a matter of law, and thus that they were subject to the provisionexception.10 the prosecutor conceded the enhancement 9 caljic no. 17.9.5 was designed to cover different firearm enhancement allegations under various subdivisions of section 12022.53. it contained multiple bracketed phrases, including the accomplice exception, to allow the court to modify the instruction to match the relevant enhancement and the allegations. 10 the record does not reflect that any party asked the trial court to include the phrase an accomplicein its jury instruction, or challenged its omission from the instruction after the verdicts were returned. their challenge to the instruction below does not constitute forfeiture of the claim on appeal. (see people v. franco (2009) . . . if the instruction was an incorrect statement of the law [citation], or if the instru 35 should not apply to the conspiracy convictions but argued it should still apply to the murder convictions because lark could not be an accomplice to his own murder. the trial court rejected appellants concession), concluding the evidence did not compel a finding that lark was an accomplice in either the murder or the conspiracy offenses, and noting the jury had acquitted williams, who drove the car in which lark was riding. on appeal, appellants argue the court committed instructional error by omitting the accomplice exception. ii. analysis we review this claim of instructional error de novo. (selivanov, supra, 5 cal.app.5th at p. 751.) following people v. flores (2005) 129 cal.app.4th 174, 178,181 (flores), we agree the accomplice exception should have been included in the jury instruction on the enhancement under section 12022.53(d). (see flores, supra, at p. 178 [holding that no. 17.19.5 in instructing on section 12022.53(d) was error, respondent maintains the error was harmless for two reasons. first, as to the murder charge, respondent claims section 12022.53when the alleged accomplice is the murder victim, contending that a victim cannot be an accomplice to his own murder. (citing in re joseph g. (1983) 34 cal.3d 429, 433 ding california, attach no 36 the jury acquittal of williams indicates it would not have found lark to be an accomplice. we disagree with both contentions. in flores, supra, 129 cal.app.4th at page 182, the court of appeal rejected the claim respondent advances here, to ones own murder, the accomplice exception to the firearm enhancement does not apply when the accomplice is the there, the defendant and a fellow gang member (valdivia) conspired to commit a battery on a rival gang member (morales). (ibid.) while valdivia engaged in a fistfight with morales, the defendant shot at morales but hit and killed valdivia. (ibid.) the prosecution charged the enhancement allegation under section 12022.53(d). (flores, at p. 181.) as here, the trial court failed to include the words in its jury instruction on this enhancement. (id. at pp. 177, 181.) a jury convicted the defendant and found the enhancement allegation true, and the trial court imposed the enhancement at sentencing. (id. at p. 180.) on appeal, the attorney general conceded the instructional error but, as here, argued it was harmless flores, supra, 129 cal.app.4th at p. 181.) rejecting this contention, the court of appeal held that 37 when the enhancement relates to a murder charge, the exception where the murder is the natural and probable consequence of the crime to which he (ibid.) the court explained that under the attorney , the exception would never apply in the context of a murder charge. (id. at p. 182.) concluding that the legislature could not have intended that result, the coibid.) applying these principles to the facts of that case, the flores court concluded that a jury could have found valdivia to be an accomplice to an intended crime -- conspiracy to commit a battery on morales -- the death. (id. at pp. 182-183.) thus, under flores, the accomplice exception could , even if lark could not be an accomplice to his own murder. respondent suggests flores is no longer good law because under senate bill no. 1437, the natural and probable consequences doctrine can no longer serve as the basis for murder liability. (citing people v. martinez (2019) 31 cal.app.5th 719, 723.) but the flores court referenced the natural and probable consequence requirement only to establish that the intended crime proximately caused people v. bland (2002) 28 cal.4th 313, 335 [in context of section 12022.53(d), proximate cause of death is an act or omission that sets in motion a chain of events that produces as a 38 direct, natural and probable consequence of the act or omission the . . . death and without which the . . . death would not have occurred].) the court did not imply that the deceased valdivia would have been liable for his own murder. respondent also attempts to distinguish flores: flores where if the victim had survived, then he would theoretically have been prosecuted for the attack on the rival, in this case lark would not have been prosecuted flores, had lark survived, he could have been prosecuted for an intended crime -- here, conspiracy to commit murder of a rival gang member. established that lark was not an accomplice, this assertion overlooks that the two were not similarly situated. the evidence that lark was an accomplice to the conspiracy to commit murder was stronger than the evidence pertaining to williams. lark was the one who instigated the conspiracy by accusing , and it was lark who had the m16 rifle. in contrast, the prosecution presented no direct s knowledge of the conspiracy prior to the shooting, and williams did not have a gun. the jury would have been entitled to find these differences significant.11 11 in a footnote in his brief, respondent notes that in (fn. continued on the next page.) 39 the failure to permit the jury to determine if lark was an accomplice for purposes of section 12022.53(d) cannot be considered harmless error under either chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 or people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818. (see flores, supra, 129 cal.app.4th at p. 183 [similar error not harmless under chapman or watson].) bates, brown, and respondent agree, and darden does not dispute, that absent harmless error, the appropriate relief is to strike the 25-years-to-life enhancements under section 12022.53(d), and substitute 20-year enhancements under section 12022.53(c), which does not include an accomplice exception, and which the information alleged and the jury found true. 2. gang enhancements under section 186.22 as noted, each appellant was convicted of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle under section 246, and the jury found true gang allegations under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) as to this charge. at sentencing, the trial court imposed the 10-year enhancement that provision prescribes. on appeal, appellants argue, and respondent concedes, that this enhancement was inapplicable because an offense under section 246 is not a violent felony for as to alleged overt acts involving lark, including that he was armed with a rifle. we observe, however, that the verdict forms asked the jury to indicate the overt acts committed by the 40 purposes of the enhancement. (see  667.5, subd. (c) [listing violent felonies].) appellants contend a 5-year gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b), applicable to serious felonies, should be applied instead. respondent argues, however, that the trial court should have imposed a 15-year gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(b), which expressly applies to convictions under section 246. moreover, respondent claims that term should have been doubled under section 667, subdivision (e)(1) for brown and bates, who had each suffered a prior serious felony conviction. appellants respond that the court could not have applied the 15-year enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(b) because the information did not allege cognizable due process right to fair notice of the specific sentence enhancement allegations that will be invoked to people v. mancebo (2002) 27 cal.4th 735, 747.) because the information did not provide appellants fair notice that section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(b) might be used to increase their sentences, the trial court could not have imposed enhance-ments under that provision. (see people v. mancebo, supra, at p. 747.) brown and bates do not respond to the claim the trial court was required to double the enhancements applicable to them. we agree with respondent those enhancements must be doubled. (see  41 prior serious or violent felony conviction . . . that has been pled and proved, the determinate term or minimum term for an indeterminate term shall be twice the term otherwise see also people v. jefferson (1999) 21 cal.4th 86, 102 [trial court erred in not doubling gang enhancement under section 186.22 for defendants who had suffered prior serious felony convictions].) accordingly, for count 3 must be corrected to reflect that the 10-year enhancements under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) are stricken and substituted with 5-year enhancements under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b), doubled for brown and bates under section 667, subdivision (e)(1). 3. stay of sentence for shooting at an occupied vehicle the trial court sentenced each appellant to a concurrent term of 15 years in prison for shooting at an occupied vehicle unargument it was required to stay those sentences under section 654. appellants renew this argument on appeal, contending that shooting at the were both part of a single indivisible course of conduct, which cannot be punished twice under section 654. people v. 42 corpening (2016) 2 cal.5th 307, 312.) generally, [s]ection 654 precludes multiple punishment for a single act or omission, or an indivisible course of conduct. [citation.] if, for example, a defendant suffers two convictions, punishment for one of which is precluded by section 654, that section requires the sentence for one conviction to be people v. deloza (1998) 18 cal.4th 585, 591.) does not apply to crimes of violence against multiple people v. correa (2012) 54 cal.4th 331, 341 (correa).) as relevant heretwo crimes committed against two victims: (1) the murder of lark, and (2) shooting at a vehicle occupied by williams. accordingly, section 654 did not apply sentences for shooting at an occupied vehicle under section 246, and the court did not err in refusing to stay them. (see correa, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 341; people v. dydouangphan (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 772 [where defendant fired single shot at vehicle containing multiple victims, killing one, section 654 did not bar separate punishments for voluntary manslaughter and shooting at an occupied vehicle].) 4. prior serious felony enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a)(1) as to brown and bates, the trial court imposed five-year enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a)(1) as to counts 1 and 2, based on a prior serious felony conviction. 43 on appeal, they contend, and respondent agrees, that under sb 1393, the matter must be remanded to permit the trial court to exercise its newly-enacted discretion whether to dismiss those enhancements in the interests of justice. section 1385, subdivision (b), prohibited trial courts from striking enhancements under section 667. (see former  1385, subd. prior conviction of a serious felony for purposes of effective january 1, 2019, sb 1393 eliminated this prohibition, permitting courts to exercise discretion to strike such enhancements. (people v. williams (2019) 37 cal.app.5th 602, 604.) sb 1393 applies retroactively to nonfinal judgments, such as in people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 973.) under such circumstances, an appellate court must generally remand for the trial court to exercise its newly granted discretion. (see people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 75-78 [where statute enacted during pending appeal gave trial court discretion to impose a lesser penalty, remand was required for resentencing].) accord-ingly, we remand the matter for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the relevant enhancements. we express no opinion how the court should exercise its discretion on remand. 44 disposition the convictions are affirmed, the sentences are vacated, and the matter is remanded for the trial court to: firearm enhancements under section 12022.53(d) for counts 1 and 2 and substitute enhancements under section 12022.53(c); (2) strike enhancements under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) for count 3 and substitute enhancements under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b), doubled as to brown and bates under section 667, subdivision (e)(1); and (3) as to brown and bates, exercise its discretion under sb 1393 whether to strike enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). these instructions do not detract from any discretion the trial court may have at the time of resentencing to strike enhancement allegations. the trial court shall prepare amended abstracts of judgment and send certified copies to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports manella, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. currey, j. 