filed 11/27/18 p. v. rangel ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. richard rangel, defendant and appellant. b287707 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba440338) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william n. sterling, judge. affirmed. christian c. buckley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and michael katz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant richard rangel appeals from the judgment after a jury convicted him of two counts of second degree robbery and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon, and found allegations in support of firearm and gang enhancements true. rangel contends that the trial court improperly denied his request to represent himself at trial, committed misconduct by questioning prosecution witnesses, and abused its discretion by imposing the maximum allowable sentence. rangel also filed a supplemental brief seeking remand for resentencing in light of senate bill no. 1393 (2017-2018 reg. sess.) (sb 1393), which as of january 1, 2019, will grant trial courts the discretion to strike the five-year enhancement under penal code1 section 667, subdivision (a)(1) for a prior conviction. request for self-representation because it was equivocal, arising request for of witnesses, even if sometimes helpful to the prosecution, was within its discretion to clarify the evidence for the jury and did not constitute misconduct. the trial court properly based sentence on aggravating factors listed in the rules of court. finally, we hold that sb 1393, once effective, resentencing would serve no purpose because the trial court clearly indicated it would not exercise its discretion to reduce his sentence. we therefore affirm the judgment. 1 undesignated statutory citations are to the penal code. 3 factual background we briefly summarize the facts underlying the charged crimes. we provide additional background relevant to each issue on appeal separately in our discussion section. on september 26, 2015, rangel, armed with a shotgun, entered a taco truck in which three employees were working. rangel held his gun to the neck of one of the employees, not hand over their money. the employees testified to being rangel left with approximately $3,500. as rangel was leaving the scene, he encountered the taco testified that rangel pointed his gun at her. tattoos, which a police officer identified as tattoos worn by members of the big hazard gang. procedure an information charged rangel with two counts of second-degree robbery ( 211), one count of assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)), and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)). the information alleged that in committing the robberies rangel personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), and that rangel committed all four offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). the information further alleged that rangel was subject to sentence enhancements because of two prior convictions and prison terms ( 667, subd. (a)(1);  667.5, subd. (b).) the alleged prior 4 convictions were for robbery ( 211) and assault with a deadly weapon other than a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(1).) the jury convicted rangel of the robbery and firearm possession counts, and found the firearm and gang allegations true. the jury acquitted rangel of the assault count. following a court trial, the trial court found rangel had suffered the two prior convictions and prison terms, and that the prior robbery convic-(i) and 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (e). the trial court sentenced rangel to the upper term of five years for the first robbery count, doubled because of the strike to 10 years, plus 10 years each for the firearm and gang enhancements, for a total of 30 years. for the second robbery count, the court imposed a sentence of one year, which was one-third the middle term, doubled to two years because of the strike, plus one-third of both the firearm and gang enhancements, for a total of 8 years 8 months. the trial court imposed a five-year enhancement for the prior robbery, which was a serious felony under sections 667, subdivision (a)(1) and 1192.7, subdivision (c)(1)(19), and a one-year enhancement for the prior assault conviction under section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court imposed a 10-year concurrent sentence for the firearm possession count and stayed it pursuant to section 654. 8 months. the trial court imposed fines and fees and awarded credits. rangel timely appealed. 5 discussion a. to represent himself was equivocal rangel argues the trial court erred by not considering his request to represent himself. we disagree. 1. additional background during a proceeding to set the trial date, rangel stated that he wished to complain about his appointed counsel. the trial court cleared the courtroom except for court staff, rangel, regarding his case. the trial court asked rangel if there was something he expected his counsel to do that his counsel did not do. on with my case. then rangel complaints about his attorney and rangel interrupted several [k]eep your mouth , the trial court would not continue talking with him. defendant reiterated his request for a new attorney. after asking further questions of rangel and his counsel, the trial court indicated rangel had not given him a good reason to replace appointed counsel, but rangel could hire his own lawyer if he wished. the following colloquy took place: 6 represent myself then. i would like to sign my rights over or whatever for himi would like to represent myself as myself. represent yourself ? d the trial court said nothing further regarding replacing appointed counsel or rangel representing himself, instead stating its intent to call the prosecution and others back to the courtroom and set the next court date. 2. analysis to invoke the constitutional right to self-representation, a criminal defendant must make an unequivocal assertion of that right in a timely manner.people v. barnett (1998) 17 cal.4th equivocation of the right of self-representation may occur where the defendant tries to manipulate the proceedings by switching between requests for counsel and for self-representation, or where such actions are the product of whim or frustration.people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1002 (lewis and oliver).) on appeal, we review the record independently to determine if a defendant invoked the right to self-representation. (people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 453.) o self-representation was both a product of frustration and an attempt to manipulate the proceedings, and therefore equivocal. (lewis and oliver, supra 7 made in the context of requesting a new lawyer, was not an assertion of his right to represent himself, but merely an illustration of his dissatisfaction and frustration with his current to rephe made the request out of frustration, and that his interest was not in representing himself, but in ultimately obtaining a new -representation was nothing more than an attempt to bypass the rangel does not challenge on appeal. under these circumstances, the trial court correctly declined to address the topic of self-representation further. rangel argues that the law required the trial court to make right to self-trial court] admonished [rangel] for his manners and informed of the that is, unequivocalwhich, as we have explained, it was not. the trial frequent interruptions, and the advisement that he could hire his own attorney also was propconclusion that rangel had not provided adequate reasons to replace appointed counsel. 8 b. the trial court did not commit misconduct by questioning witnesses 1. additional background rangel contends there are numerous sections of the misconduct by improperly questioning prosecution witnesses. we describe below the instances identified by rangel. a. examination of detective hidalgo the prosecution asked detective jose hidalgo of the los angeles police department (lapd) whether he learned about plained that nonresponsiveness and relevance. the trial court overruled the objections. hidalgo then stated that the gang lifestyle would be . . . hispanic boy growing up in south hidalgo said yes. after hidalgo looked at a photograph and identified the pictured individual as a member of the big hazard gang, the trial hidalgo then relayed how he knew the individual and that the individual had admitted gang membership to him multiple times. the prosecution introduced a baseball cap into evidence, which hidalgo identified as the cap rangel wore in a video of the crime scene. the trial court sustained an objection by defense 9 counsel, then asked, e as the thereafter, the court asked whether the hat was taken into police custody after rangel was apprehended. hidalgo answered yes to both questions. the prosecution asked hidalgo about a search of a vehicle, all, did you conduct the search yourself court asked if hidalgo recovered the items. hidalgo said no. the hidalgo said yes. the prosecution asked hidalgo to remove a spent shotgun hull from a manila envelope and identify it for the jury. the trial clear, do you know questions that a shotgun hull was what remained of a round of ammunition after it had discharged. when the prosecution presented a video of the crime scene, hidalgo answered questions regarding tattoos on the individual in the video. at one point, hidalgo referred to the individual as o was identifying tattoos he could see on the individual in the video, not on rangel himself in the courtroom. later, after the prosecution advanced the video, the trial court described the image and asked if it was taken with a camera at a different angle. hidalgo explained it was the same camera. individual in the video, the trial court verified that hidalgo was 10 talking about a tattoo. when the prosecution asked whether hidalgo had seen such a tattoo on mr. rangel, defense counsel objected on grounds of foundation. the court asked hidalgo, the court instructed the prosecution to proceed. a similar exchange happened when hidalgo identified another tattooagain, the defense raised a foundation objection, the court asked if hidalgo had seen the tattoo on rangel, hidalgo said yes, and the court overruled the objection. b. examination of officer feria the prosecution asked lapd officer alejandro feria when he had first heard of the big hazard gang. feria said growing up a said grade school. later, when feria described what evidence of gangs one might see in the neighborhood he grew up in, the trial court said, explained his own experience learning about gangs. when feria described the images in big hazard graffiti, the trial court asked, to define the term for the jury. feria described symbols and tattoos used by the big hazard gang and the court asked him to confirmed with feria that clique members were still members of big hazard. later, when feria said gang members were 11 when the prosecution asked feria about a photograph of a purported gang member, the court asked questions confirming feria knew the individual in the photo. the prosecution asked feria about crimes he had investigated that big hazard members had committed. feria listed numerous crimes, including narcotics sales, auto theft, assault with a deadly weapon, criminal threats, and murders. would you say is the bread and butter of big hazard, meaning that are primary activities, daily crimes, that happen the most the court about crimes that are committed by big hazard gang narcotics, specifically methamphetamine and heroin. and what are . . . all the other crimes you talked about . . . crimes that are committed periodically, more than once, by . . . something that happen constan shooting rival gang members. the following colloquy occurred: 12 regularly committed by big hazard members? es. you mean by that? investigated crimes 2 2. analysis evidence code section 775 confers upon the trial judge the power, discretion and affirmative duty . . . [to] participate in the examination of witnesses whenever he believes that he may fairly aid in eliciting the truth, in preventing misunderstanding, in clarifying the testimony or covering omissions, in allowing a witness his right of explanation, and in eliciting facts material to a just determination of the cause. people v. harris (2005) 2 inspurported instances in the absence of argument as to why they constituted misconduct or were prejudicial. 13 37 cal.4th 310, 350 (harris).) in doing so, the trial court must ensure that the questions remain temperate, nonargumentative, and scrupulously fair and do not convey to th (people v. perez (2018) 4 cal.5th 421, 460 (perez should be careful not to throw the weight of [their] judicial presence of the jury lest they seem to lean toward or lend their influence to one side or the other. people v. sturm (2006) 37 cal.4th 1218, 1237 (sturm).) it is misconduct for a triae] defense counsel and defense witnesses in the presence of the jury, and convey[ ] the impression that he favor[s] the prosecution by (sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1238.) put another way, a trial unnecessarily usurp[ing] the duties of the prosecutor . . . and in so doing creat[ing] the impression that he [is] allying himself harris, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 347.) e[d] the prosecution elicited the necessary evidence to support the gang enhancements, chain of nds the trial rangel 14 rangel has forfeited this argument by failing to object to that a particular question was asked and answered). (people v. williams (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 644, 693.) rangel interaction with the witnesses was so ubiquitous that any objection would have been fruitless and clearly unable to change y objection trial court might have responded, and are unwilling to assume the objection would have been futile. ention that the trial court elicited evidence supporting elements that the prosecution otherwise would not have established, this would be insufficient to show misconduct. the trial court was within its discretion to elicit[ ] facts material to a just determination of the cause harris, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 350), which could include facts potentially beneficial to the prosecution. rangel cites no authority holding that merely asking questions that elicit evidence beneficial to one side or the other constitutes judicial were not leading, and did not limit the witnesses to particular responses. the prosecution and its witnesses more likely appeared as criticism rather than support, which would only have r example, at one point the 15 assumed facts not in evidence, leading to an apology from the prosecution. shortly thereafter, the trial court interrupted detective hidalgo because his answers were not responsive to the rangel does not claim, nor does the record support, that the ate, argumentative, or unfair, or that the trial court through its questions and comments perez, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 460.) nor does rangel claim, or the record support, that the trial court disparaged defense counsel or sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1238.) in the absence of such conduct, we do not believe the jury would perceive the de simply by asking clarifying questions that ultimately proved beneficial to the claim of judicial misconduct. c. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by imposing the maximum sentence rangel argues the trial court abused its discretion by relying on improper reasons to impose his sentence. we disagree. 1. additional background at the outset of the sentencing hearing, defense counsel requested that the trial court impose a sentence in accordance 26 years. the trial court declined to be guided by the pretrial 16 the appropriate sentence because, first of all, the defendant has had queried why the prosecution had not alleged that the second prior conviction, for assault, was also a strike, and the prosecutor stated that it did not qualify as a strike under current law. darn serious thing when you get convicted of assault likely to produce great bodily injury.3 and he has a prior robbery strike. the trial court he held them in a position of particular vulnerability isolated in a truck where nobody really would be able to see. and he held a gun to were terrified. they were terrified when they came back to court. [] and, you know, hei he has been a bad dude in his behavior through his life, done some really horrible things. that was a particularly horrible 3 rangel previously was convicted of assault with a deadly weapon other than a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(1)), not assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(4)). rangel does not challenge this discrepancy on appeal and we need not address it further. 17 right against their head, threatening to kill them andhorribhim anything other than the maximum term based on his prior record and the absolutely totally egregious nature of this offense. the trial court then imposed the sentence of 44 years 8 months we described previously, which included the upper term on the first robbery count. the prosecution reminded the trial court that it had the discretion to strike the firearm and gang enhancements. the trial court responded, i thereafter, the trial cothat the court chooses not to exercise its discretion to do either. i the trial court then resentenced rangel for a separate violation for possessing a weapon in prison ( 4502, subd. (a)), a weapon in prisoni necessary to my decision. for purposes of resentencing on the prison weapon possession n at the end of the sentencing hearing, the trial court stated, when you have prior convictions for robbery and assault and you 18 commit a robbery with a shotgun and hold a gun to somebodyreason why the sentence is so long. it is completely antisocial, 2. analysis rangel argues basis for a max- we agree with respondent that rangel did not object to his sentence before the trial court and therefore has forfeited his for the sentence it imposed. (see people v. sperling (2017) 12 cal.app.5th 1094, 1100 [appealing criminal defendant may make or articulate its discretionary the party people v. gonzalez (2003) 31 cal.4th 745, 751.) rangel makes no argument to the contrary. gave a far more comprehensive explanation for its sentence than the belief that rangel was a bad or awful person. the trial court referred to the facts that rangel threatened to kill at least one of his victims and that the victims were particularly vulnerable, in the rules of court that can support discretionary sentencing decisions such as imposition of an upper term or a consecutive 19 sentence. (see cal. rules of court,4 rules 4.420(b), 4.421(a)(1), single factor in aggravation is sufficient to justify a sentencing people v. brown (2000) 83 cal.app.4th 1037, 1043.) rangel notes that rule 4.420(c) and (d) prohibit the trial charged 5 element of the crime on which punishment is bestablished the base terms. thus, the criminal acts could not also serve to aggravate we agree that under rule 4.420(c), prior crimes, gang affiliation, and use of a firearm could not be used to impose the upper term because those facts were the basis of sentence enhancements. rangel fails to explain, however, why the trial court properly could not rely on the circumstances in aggravation noted above to impose the sentence it did. to the extent rangel is suggesting that threatening to kill particularly contention. robbery consists of felonious taking of personal 4 undesignated rule references are to the rules of court. 5 discretion to strike the punishment for the enhancement and , the trial court did not exercise its discretion to strike any enhancements, so the prohibition applied. 20 property in the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished by means of force or fear.particular vulnerability of the victim is a required element. even if the trial court relied upon both proper and improper factors in selecting the upper term, remand for resentencing nonetheless would be unwarranted. when a court improperly uses facts for two sentencing purposes in violation of ot reasonably probable that a more favorable sentence would have people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 728 (osband).) in osband, the trial court imposed the upper term based on several aggravating factors, and then imposed a consecutive sentence based on one of those same aggravating factors, in violation of rule 4.425(b)(1). (osband, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 728.) the supreme court found no prejudicial error: bis required to impose the upper term [citation], and the same is could have selected disparate facts from among those it recited to justify the imposition of both a consecutive sentence and the upper term, and on this record we discern no reasonable id. at pp. 728-729.) similarly, here the trial court recited facts on which it properly could rely to impose the upper term without invoking the facmaximum sentence, and its express refusal to exercise its discretion to reduce the sentence, we do not think it reasonably probable that rangel would receive a better outcome on remand. 21 d. remand for resentencing under sb 1393 is unwarranted given tindication that it would not impose a lesser sentence rangel requests that we remand for resentencing in light of sb 1393. the parties have submitted supplemental briefing on the subject. we hold that remand is unwarranted. under current law, which was in effect when rangel was prior conviction of a serious felony for purposes of enhancement adopted september 30, 2018, amends sections 667 and 1385 to omit this restriction, thus granting trial courts discretion to strike the prior conviction as it relates to the five-year sentence enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). (see sen. bill no. 1393 (2017-2018 reg. sess.)  2; people v. garcia (nov. 1, 2018, e068490) __ cal.app.5th __ [p. 13] (garcia).) these amendments will be effective as of january 1, 2019. (cal. const., art. iv,  8, subd. (c)(1).) rangel argues that when sb 1393 takes effect, it will apply retroactively to his case, and we therefore should remand so the trial court may exercise its discretion and decide whether to stri(a)(1). respondent concedes that sb 1393 would apply to judgment became final. respondent argues, however, that because the law is not yet for adjudication. respondent further argues that even if the issue were ripe, remand in this case is unwarranted because the 22 not exercise its disc our colleagues in the fourth district, confronting similar arguments, concluded it was proper to address them although sb 1393 is not yet in effect. (garcia, supra, __ cal.app.5th __ [p. 16].) in garcia, decided november 1, 2018, the court reasoned 2019, because the defendant would not have exhausted his appeal rights by that date, including to the united states supreme court. (ibid.) here also, it is highly unlikely rangel will have exhausted his appeals before january 1, 2019, and it would serve little purpose for us to decline to resolve his challenge as unripe only to have it return to us through some other mechanism. we thus proceed to address the issue on the merits. we agree with the parties that sb 1393, once effective, will garcia, supra, __ cal.app.5th __ [p. 13] [sb 1393 applies retroactively to all cases with enhancement imposed under  667, subd. (a)(1) if judgment not yet final when law takes effect].) when a change in the law grants a trial court discretion to strike a previously mandatory enhancement that the trial court has already imposed, remand that the trial court clearly indicated when it originally sentenced the defendant that it would not in any event have stricken [the] . . . (people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, 425 (mcdaniels).) on this record we conclude the trial court clearly indicated it would not strike the five-year enhancement, and remand is unnecessary. 23 mcdaniels, in articulating its rule, relied on the oft-cited case of people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894 (gutierrez), which we find persuasive here. in gutierrez, a jury convicted the defendant of one count of robbery and one count of attempted robbery, and found true allegations of three prior convictions, one of which was a strike under section 667, subdivisions (b) through (i). (gutierrez, supra, 48 cal.app.4th at p. 1895.) during sentencing, the trial court imposed the high term on the in a pattern of violent conduct, which indicates he is a serious (id. at p. 1896.) the trial court then imposed a consecutive sentence on the second count and added a five-year enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a) for a prior conviction. (ibid.) the trial court stated that it had the discretion whether to impose two additional one-year enhancements for prior convictions under section 667.5, subdivision (b), and opted to there are a lot of reasons not to, and this is the kind of individual (ibid.) while the gutierrez appeal was pending, the supreme court issued an opinion holding that trial courts had the discof justice, a holding the court expressly stated was retroactive. (gutierrez, supra, 48 cal.app.4th at p. 1896, citing people v. superior court (romero) (1996)13 cal.4th 497.) the gutierrez court nonetheless held that remand for he trial court indicated that it would not, in any event, have exercised its discretion to 24 lessen the sentence. it stated that imposing the maximum sentence was appropriate. it increased appellants sentence beyond what it believed was required by the three strikes law, by imposing the high term for count 1 and by imposing two additional discretionary one-year enhancements. under the circumstances, no purpose would be served in remanding for reconsideration.gutierrez, at p. 1896.) the facts here are analogous to those in gutierrez. the antisocial, dangthrough by imposing the upper term on the robbery count and adding decades to the sentence through various enhancements, expressly declining to exercise its discretion to strike the gang and firearm enhancements. when defense counsel asked the statements and actions are clear intent was to impose the highest sentence possible, beyond even what the law required. thus, as in gutierrez, we conclude that remand for resentencing would serve no purpose. rangel suggests that remand is required unless the trial court specifically stated that it would not strike the particular enhancement at issue even if it had the discretion to do so. gutierrez has no such requirement; the trial court in that case imposed the strike enhancement without comment as to whether it would have declined to do so had it the discretion. (gutierrez, supra, 48 cal.app.4th at p. 1896 [when doubling sentence term pursuant to three s 25 indicate that it had discretion to strike the three strikes prior conduct to reflect that it would not exercise any discretion to reduce the sentence, regardless of the particular enhancement at issue. d clear indications of intent akin to those in gutierrez or the instant case. mcdaniels held that remand in light of senate bill no. 6206 was proper when, among other things, the trial court struck other discretionary enhancements. (mcdaniels, supra, 22 cal.app.5th at p. 428.) in billingsley, division seven of this court also remanded in light of senate bill no. 620 when the trial to impose the maximum possible sthe and billingsley, supra, 22 cal.app.5th at p. 1081.) people v. gamble (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 891 held that the trial court incorrectly believed it lacked discretion to impose a particular sentence concurrently, and that remand was court would have exercised its discretion to impose a concurrent term if it had known that it had id. at p. 901.) in particular, the court of appeal noted that the trial court 6 senate bill no. 620 (2017-2018 reg. sess.) amended section 12022.5, subdivision (c) and section 12022.53, subdivision (h), to give trial courts discretion to strike firearm enhancements imposed under those statutes. (people v. billingsley (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 1076, 1079-1080 (billingsley).) 26 already had imposed a concurrent term for one of the other charges. (ibid.) here, again, the trial court stated expressly that it intended to impose the maximum sentence and did so, with no expression of sympathy towards rangel. the trial court lacked cited cases. people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66 (franciswhen the legislature takes action to create new important discretion, it is improper to deny a trial court the chance to consider the importance of that change even where the court has francis addressed whether an amendment to the penal code providing for alternative sentences for narcotics offenses applied retroactively to cases in which judgment was not yet final. (francis, supra, 71 cal.2d at p. 75.) although the supreme court remanded for resentencing, it did not discuss the possibility that remand might be futile, nor does it appear the attorney general raised such an argument. (id. at p. 79.) thus, francis does not support the proposition that remand is mandated whenever a change in the law has retroactive application, and it is not in conflict with our holding. 27 disposition the judgment is affirmed. bendix, j. we concur: johnson, acting p. j. currey, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 