filed 8/27/19 p. v. quiroz ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. guillermo quiroz, defendant and appellant. b287491 los angeles county super. ct. no. ka111747 appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, mike camacho, judge. affirmed. alex green, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant guillermo quiroz of attempted voluntary manslaughter and assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. the jury found true allegations that quiroz personally used a dangerous and deadly weapona heavy ceramic pot full of dirtin the commission of the attempted manslaughter, and that he personally inflicted great bodily injury on the victim, cody andrew ramirez. on appeal, quiroz contends the trial court erred in denying his miranda motion1 case statements he made when he and his attorney met with detectives before his arrest. he also asks us conditionally to reverse his conviction and to remand the case for the trial court to consider his eligibility for pretrial mental health diversion under penal code section 1001.36.2 miranda motion and therefore affirm his conviction. we decline to remand the case because, in our view, section 1001.36 is not retroactive. facts and procedural background 1. in a drunken melee at a wedding, quiroz drops a large, heavy ceramic planter near the prone on january 30, 2016, cody ramirez and his fiance jamie hobbs went to a wedding at the doubletree hotel in claremont. ramirez had a lot to drink and he was drunk. as the wedding 1 miranda v. state of arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 2 statutory references are to the penal code. references to rules are to the california rules of court. 3 was winding down, ramirez and hobbs went outside to the front of the hotel. quiroz and his wife nery vanessa miranda also were at the weddingdrinking that night. around 11:45 p.m., quiroz and miranda decided to leave; they went outside to have a cigarette first. quiroz was talking cursingsays ing to just dylan webster was another guest at the wedding. by 11:30 amirez fell to the ground. webster kicked ramirez in the head; ramirez was bleeding.3 quiroz joined in. when hobbs and her friends came back 3 in a negotiated disposition, webster pled to assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury for two years, to be served in local custody under realignment. 4 in the meantime, an uber driver arrived at the hotel to that was just arguing or havirding with his cell phone. it was the uber driver posted the video on social media. ramirez contacted him about the video. the cell phone video was played for the jury at trial. quiroz and miran claremont police department detective christopher casas arrived at the scene. he went into a bathroom at the hotel and casas called quiroz and miranda. casas asked them how the pot had been broken. according to miranda, she told casas ramirez was air-lifted to a hospital. he had a broken nose, a four-centimeter cut to his forehead that required eight stitches, and bruises on his scalp. he was discharged a few hours later. 5 2. quiroz and his attorney meet with police, present qu on january 31, 2016the day after the incidentquiroz station. quiroz and shamuilian met with two detectives and a deputy district attorney. one of the detectives was sergeant hector tamayo. we have listened to the audio recording and read the transcript of the meeting. room, lisa el-farra. shamuilian gave el-farra a card and each reason i called you is, is because on the day of the, of this incident i guess you spoke to an officer and gave him a statement of your talked to other people and gotten their, you know, statements as tamayo wyou know, if you wanted to talk to me or tell me anything about shamuilian tothat his wife was kind of pushed into . . . and he slams it on the ground, just to kind of make a loud noise and, shut up, guys, stop 6 to tamayo asked want not . . apparently referring to the videohimself and his wife. [then] . . . they were like chasing him and . . a second detective asked quiroz if he recognized anyone in what i remember after i got clocked, i said this fight needs to end and i grabbed that pot and i threw it on the ground. ding, ding, loud noise, people expand [sic 7 veteran who served in iraq, was in school, and was married with a child. tamayo said, have you ever been in a fight with a wife and she throws a glass heard a case of that, but i kind of dropped the planter and you know just trying to make my point, not to hurt anyone, but only quiroz said ramirez and his wife got upset after quiroz the guy is throwing my wife into that planter on the ground . . . just 8 bringing him in. um unfortunately you are going to be charged the detectives then handcuffed quiroz and led him away. shamuilian continued to speak with el-farra for a minute or two. 3. the charges and the miranda hearing the people charged quiroz with attempted murder (count 1) and assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury (count 3).4 the people alleged that quiroz personally used a dangerous and deadly weaponin the attempted murder and that, as to both counts, he personally inflicted great bodily injury on the victim. trial began on november 20, 2017. the next day, outside the jura trial brief raising 11 issues; miranda was not one of them.5 the 4 in the original information, filed march 7, 2016, the people charged quiroz only with attempted murder. at the conclusion of a trial in july 2017, the jury was unable to reach a verdict and the court declared a mistrial. on august 8, 2017, the people filed an amended information, adding a charge of assault with a deadly weapon (count 2). (although the charge was labeled count 3, the prosecutor orally amended the information to allege it as count 2.) on september 7, 2017, the people filed a second amended information adding assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury as count 3. on november 22, 2017, 5 the record on appeal does not contain a prosecution trial brief for the retrial. in the first trial, the prosecutor filed a brief 9 miranda issue with the statements quiroz and his wife made to casas on the speakerphone the night of the fight. that were made when the defendant and his attorney went to the made a number of statements during that interview that the people may intend to elicit during the course of this trial should the defendant responded to a station in company of counsel, may have been questioned or may have volunteered certain miranda because, even though it was questions elicited perhaps litigate whether or not it was a miranda miranda hearing was received and under statements in the meeting the next day. the prosecution did not st trial. 10 a [his] client to the station absent a formal invitation by law i the court asked shamuilian if he told the detectives and invoking a privilege against self-the get-transcript does not support that assertion. while, fairly early on, any sic] be making any further questions.) the bring your client to them and somehow a conversation begins even though it was contrary to . . . your strategy and not having your client make any statements, there seems to be some type of 11 implicit waiver here when mr. quiroz is now answering questions perhaps to him in the first placunusual when we have counsel present at the time questioning is even if law enforcement had been told quiroz with his client and his client the court heard further argument and then ruled. the amendment right to counsel, and his fifth amendment rights against self-incrimination had been asserted on his behalf. setting in my mind because the defendant voluntarily came down, albeit with the understanding they may have to surrender. with counsel as well as with a clear impression that his rights ke advantage statements in the meeting were admissible. 4. to ial quiroz did not testify at trial. he called as witnesses a number of family members and friends who testified to his good character. he called webster. he called an expert in pot to where ramirez was lying. 12 quiroz also called dr. deborah miora, a clinical and neuropsychologist. miora had evaluated quiroz and concluded he suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd). miora deliberating about them, to weigh the consequences of our defense counsel gave miora a hypothetical: he asked her to consider a person with ptsd who has no violence in his past, xposed to an experience where a loved one -based level and experiencing threat or danger, that individual is going to be most likely to react from that fight/flight triggered on cross-examination the prosecutsomebody specifically made a statement that they knew what their actions were under the circumstances and they made those decisions for a specific reason, that would undermine your rily. we often say and believe what we say but evidence may show to the human nature . . . . we can have things going on at different 13 on rebuttal, the prosecutor called detective tamayo. tamayo testified he met with quiroz and his attorney on january 31, 2016. the recording of the meeting was played for the jury. 5. the verdicts and sentence on december 7, 2017, the jury acquitted quiroz of attempted murder. it convicted him on the lesser charge of attempted voluntary manslaughter as well as assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. the jury found true the allegations that quiroz used a dangerous or deadly weapon and personally inflicted great bodily injury on the victim. him military diversion for veterans under sections 1170.9 and 1170.91 and rules 4.413 and 4.414. the court denied the motion, the court sentenced quiroz to five years and six months in the state prison. the court chose the low term of 18 months for attempted voluntary manslaughter, citing as mitigating factors years for the infliction of great bodily injury and one year for deadly weapon. the court stayed the sentence on count 3 under section 654. discussion 1. amendment rights by admitting his statements to police compul14 asserts he could not have waived his miranda rights because police never advised him of those rights. the attorney general argues quiroz was not in custody. we find no miranda violation. quiroz came to the police station with his lawyer, sat in an interview room with his counsel by his side, and chimed in while his counsel presented his side of the story in an effort to persuade the detectives not to file charges against quiroz. a. that he picked up the pot and dropped it to end the altercation was a defense strategy he and his counsel chose and presented to the jury miranda argument rests on an inaccurate premise. he asserts the prosecution used the only reacting as a result of his triggered fear . . . and then to statement showed that he knew what he was doing when he dropped the pot rather than simply reacting as a result of his 6 but it was quiroz who first raised the contention that he intentionally dropped the pot to get everyone to stop fighting and disperse. in his opening statement, defense counsel at this point he just wants to get out of there. . . . mr. quiroz 6 quiroz makes this argument only as to the attempted voluntary manslaughter count, not on the assault count. 15 there, the only thing that he sees that he could do to try to make a distraction or a loud noise to make it break up, he sees a pot. he picks it up; he slams it down as hard as he can to make the loudest noise grabbed that pot and i threw it on the ground. ding, ding, loud noise, people expand [sic evidence will show that [quiroz] did not want to kill cody ramirez. . . . [his] intent was to break up the fight. and his other efforts to kind of deescalate this si triggered reaction. and the ptsd may help you guys understand shamuilian also spoke at length about self-defense and defense of self-mr. ramirez attacked vanessa miranda. she was in imminent even though the trial court found no substantial evidence of self-defense or defense of anotheron n quiroz dropped the potit ultimately instructed the jury on those principles. in his closing argument, shamuilian harkened back to his break it up, move on. . . . and his pleas to stop and break it up in 16 thing and move on shamuilian also argued quiroz was defending his wife. showed this was a triggered reaction like fight-or-person going through a ptsd episode doof us and would not be able to formulate the specific intent to -of-another argument with formulate the specific intent required to convict for an attempted murder and its lesser included charges. he was acting in defense the prosecutor conceded quiroz has ptsd. but he noted quiroz and his wife told casas that nightbefore anyone knew the uber driver had videotaped the incidentwas the b. in any event, quiroz was not in custody when he volunteered his version of events to detectives an interrogation is custodial for purposes of requiring advisements under miranda when a person has been taken into custody or otherwise deprived of his freedom of action in any significant way. (people v. moore (2011) 51 cal.4th 386, 394-395.) in miranda specifies circumstances that are thought generally to present a howes v. fields (2012) 565 u.s. 499, 17 508-509.) custody consists of a formal arrest or a restraint on freedom of movement of the degree associated with a formal arrest. (moore, at p. 395; people v. leonard (2007) 40 cal.4th 1370, 1400.) when there has been no formal arrest, the question is how a reasonable persohave understood his situation. (people v. boyer (1989) 48 cal.3d 247, 271.) all of the circumstances of the interrogation are relevant to this inquiry, including the location, length, and form of the interrogation, the degree to which the investigation was focused on the defendant, and whether any indicia of arrest were present. (ibid.) miranda inferences and its credibility evaluations if substantial evidence supports them. we independently determine from those facts whether the challenged statements were illegally obtained, applying federal constitutional standards. (people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 339; people v. bacon (2010) 50 cal.4th 1082, miranda case-in-chief. (jackson, at p. 339; people v. peevy (1998) 17 cal.4th 1184, 1193-1196.) the trial court was right when it said this is an unusual set of facts. neither quiroz nor the attorney general has cited a casenor have we found one in our own researchthat presents circumstances such as these. shamuilian took quiroz to the police station. after the fact, he said he took him there to surrender. but the tenor and content of the exchange at the meeting reflects an effort by shamuilianwith quiroz chiming in18 them he was a good person whose wife was attacked by a drunk, combative man and who dropped the pot to bring an end to the altercation. it is true the detectives never told quiroz he was free to leave, and at the end of the meeting they arrested him. of course quiroz before the meeting even began. but any such decision does not mean quiroz was in custody. the determination of interrogation, not on the subjective views harbored by either the (stansbury v. california (1994) 511 u.s. 318, 323-subjective belief whether person is a suspect, undisclosed to that person, is irrelevant for miranda purposes]; people v. stansbury (1995) 9 cal.4th 824, 830 [reconsidering issue without regard to uncommunicated subjective impressions of police and concluding defendant was not in custody].) the test is how a reasonable person in the suspsituation. (berkemer v. mccarty (1984) 468 u.s. 420, 442.) quiroz arrived at the station with his attorney, he was not handcuffed, and the detectives displayed no guns. (cf. people v. kopatz (2015) 61 cal.4th 62, 78, 80 [defendant taken in police car to detective bureau for questioning was not in custody; among (id. at p. 81, quoting people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 345.) the detectives did not ask quiroz accusatory, confrontational, or persistent questions. (cf. people v. saldana (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 432, 459.) tamayo began by sayin19 me the pot at or near ramirez. quiroz continued to volunteer information, as did shamuilian, in an apparent effort to convince the police and prosecutor not to file charges or arrest quiroz. compelling influences is, of course, admissible in evidence. . . . volunteered statements of any kind are not barred by the fifth miranda, supra, 384 u.s. at p. 478.) quiroz had his attorney with him throughout the meeting. quiroz simply did not face the sort of physical or psychological coercion that underlies the miranda rule. 2. quiroz is not entitled to a conditional remand in a supplemental brief, quiroz asks us to reverse his conviction conditionally and to remand the case to the trial court so he can request pretrial mental health diversion. the attorney statute on which he relies is not retroactive. we agree. effective june 27, 2018, the legislature created a pretrial diversion program for defendants with diagnosed and qualifying mental disorders. ( 1001.36, subd. (b)(1)(a).) the statute either temporarily or permanently, at any point in the judicial process from the point at which the accused is charged until since early 2018. the language and legislative history of the statute make clear section 1001.36 provides only for a pretrial diversion 20 program designed to prevent the needs and costs associated with trial and incarceration. the legislature enacted the program to mitigate the entry and reentry of individuals with mental health disorders into the criminal justice system. ( 1001.35, subd. (a).) diversion after trial, sentencing, and incarceration would not serve that purpose. moreover, the legislature limited the mental health treatment to a maximum of two years before criminal proceedings are reinstated or the charge dismissed. ( 1001.36, subd. (c)(3).) this time limitation is consistent with the nature and purpose of a pretrial diversion program. within two years, a court can determine whether a defendant has performed satisfactorily in diversion to earn dismissal of his charges, but if he does not perform well criminal proceedings can resume within a reasonable period of time. illness into treatment at an early stage in the proceedings. [assembly bill no.] 1810 seeks to reduce recidivism rates for mentally ill defendants, and to avoid unnecessary and off. of sen. floor analyses, analysis of sen. bill no. 215 (2017-2018 reg. sess.) pp. 2-3, as amended aug. 23, 2018.) in people v. frahs (2018) 27 cal.app.5th 784 (frahs), the fourth district court of appeal held section 1001.36 to be retroactive. on december 27, 2018, our supreme court granted review on its own motion and denied a request for depublication. (frahs, review granted on specified issues dec. 27, 2018, section 1001.36 apply retroactively to all cases in which the judgment is not yet final? did the court of appeal err by 21 remanding for a determination under penal code section ibid.) on may 23, 2019, the fifth district court of appeal reached the opposite conclusion from frahs in people v. craine (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 744 (craine).7 on july 1, 2019, in an opinion certified for partial publication, the sixth district disagreed with craine and agreed with frahs. (people v. weaver (2019) 36 cal.app.5th 1103, petn. for review filed aug. 1, 2019.)8 until our high court decides the issue, we must decide this case with the statutory language and legislative history available to us. we respectfully find the craine conditional reversal and remand. 7 the fifth district also held section 1001.36 not to be retroactive in an earlier unpublished case: people v. rocco (jan. 22, 2019, f074772) [nonpub. opn.]. on april 24, 2019, the (ibid., review granted apr. 24, 2019, s254264.) 8 in four unpublished cases, three other divisions of our second district have concluded section 1001.36 is retroactive. (see people v. knight (apr. 23, 2019, b284886) [nonpub. opn.], review granted july 10, 2019, s256081; people v. williams (apr. 29, 2019, b290706) [nonpub. opn.], review granted july 10, 2019, s255686; people v. propps (may 8, 2019, b281522) [nonpub. opn.], review granted july 17, 2019, s256322; people v. phillips (june 4, 2019, b286715) [nonpub. opn.].) the knight case was a two-to-one decision with a vigorous dissent. 22 disposition not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. 