 filed 4/10/19 p. v. ambriz ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eleasar ambriz, defendant and appellant. b287939 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na097579) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, richard a. romero, judge. affirmed. law offices of anibal valdez-ortega and anibal valdez-ortega for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and christopher g. sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________ 2 introduction in 2014 eleasar ambriz pleaded no contest to possessing cocaine with the intent to sell, in violation of health and safety december 15, 2017 order denying his motion under penal code section 1473.7 to vacate that conviction.1 we affirm. factual and procedural history in 2013 the people charged ambriz with one count of unlawful possession of cocaine with intent to sell (health & saf. code,  11351) and one count of unlawful possession of methamphetamine with intent to sell (id.,  11378). in january 2014, pursuant to a negotiated disposition, ambriz pleaded no contest to the cocaine charge, the court dismissed the other charge, and the court sentenced ambriz to probation for three years. before accno contest plea, the court advised him of the effects of the conviction including that if he was not for which [he had] been charged will have the consequences of deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of naturalization pursuant to the laws of the united the court found ambriz knew and understood these consequences. in october 2017, having completed his probation, ambriz filed a motion under section 1473.7 to vacate his conviction. he contended his trial counsel had failed to advise him properly of the immigration consequences of his plea, specifically, that the conviction would subject ambriz, who was born in mexico and 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 was a legal permanent resident of the united states, to deportation and would make him ineligible for naturalization. ambriz stated in his supporting declaration that he was currently in deportation proceedings as a result of the conviction. the trial court held a hearing on the motion in november and december 2017. ambriz testified that, prior to entering his plea, he informed his trial counsel of his immigration status. ambriz stated his attorney informed him of the immigration consequences he faced, but she did not recommend he consult with an immigration attorney. ambriz further testified that, after his trial counsel informed him of the immigration consequences he faced, ambriz had only five minutes to decide how to plea. had he had more time to decide, ambriz stated, he would have spoken with an immigration lawyer. in his declaration supporting the motion, ambriz also stated that, had he had more time to decide and an opportunity to consult with 2 an immigration attorney, juan carlos pallares, also testified at the hearing on the motion. asked what advice he would have given ambriz before ambriz entered a plea, pallares he is deportable for the charges that were brought against him and to do his best with his criminal defense attorney to negotiate a plea that would not make him immediately deportable, and if not, if he has to face the charges, to go forward because a plea of no contest wouldfor immigration purposeswould be the same 2 ambriz tried to contact his former trial counsel to have her testify at the hearing, but could not reach her because she had retired. 4 the court denied the motion. the court found ambriz did meaningfully understand the . . . adverse immigration consequenc the court statedthe fact that [his trial counsel] may not have referred him to an immigration attorney does not establish by itself that there was no meaningful understanding by [ambriz] of those consequences and he made a choice. perhaps it was a bad choice, but it was a timely appealed. discussion a. applicable law and standard of review conviction or sentence is legally invalid due to meaningfully understand, defend against, or knowingly accept the actual or potential adverse immigration consequences of a ( 1473.7, subd. (a)(1).)[3] court shall grant the motion to vacate the conviction or sentence if the moving party establishes, by a preponderance of the evidence, the existence of any of the grounds for relief specified in 3 effective january 1, 2019, the legislature amended section invalidity may, but need not, include a finding of ineffective stats. 2018, ch. 825,  2.) neither party suggests the amendment has any application to this case. 5 people v. ogunmowo (2018) 23 cal.app.5th 67, 75 (ogunmowo).) or knowingly accept the actual or potential adverse immigration consequences of a guilty plea, if established by a preponderance of the evidence, is the type of error that entitles the defendant to relief under section 1473.7. [citation.] to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must demonstrate that his reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and that he ogunmowo, supra, 23 cal.app.5th at p. 75; accord, people v. espinoza (2018) 27 cal.app.5th 908, 914; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687.) where, as here, a defendant making a motion to vacate a conviction under section 1473.7 contends the conviction was legally invalid because trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by giving incorrect advice about the immigration consequences of a guilty plea, we review a denying the motion de novo. (people v. tapia (2018) 26 cal.app.5th 942, 950 (tapia); accord, ogunmowo, supra, 23 cal.app.5th at p. 76; see people v. olvera (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 1112, 1116.) we accord determinations if supported by substantial evidence in the record, but exercise our independent judgment in deciding performance and resulting prejudice to the defendant.tapia, at p. 950; accord, ogunmowo, at p. 76.) 6 b. the trial court motion to vacate his conviction amb is not that his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance, but that the trial court evaluated his motion under the wrong statute. citing the on the adverse immigration consequences of his plea, he contends the trial court mistakenly evaluated his motion under section 1016.5, which provides for vacating a conviction based on a plea of guilty or no contest where the sentencing court fails to properly advise a defendant of the possible immigration consequences of the plea,4 instead of under section 1473.7. but a sentencing courtregarding immigration consequences is relevant not only under section 1016.5, but also to a motion under section 1473.7. (see tapia, supra, 26 cal.app.5th at pp. 951-s not the immigration consequences, we address that advisement in the 4 section 1016.5, subdivision (a), requires a trial court, prior to accepting a guilty, nolo contendere or no contest plea, to administer the folloif you are not a citizen, you are hereby advised that conviction of the offense for which you have been charged may have the consequences of deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of naturalization pursuant to the laws of the united se . the court fails to advise the defendant as required by this section and the defendant shows that conviction of the offense to which defendant pleaded guilty or nolo contendere may have [adverse s motion, shall vacate the judgment and permit the defendant to withdraw the plea . . . and enter a plea of not guilty.(people v. arendtsz (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 613, 616-617.) 7 context of assessing whether substantial evidence supports the trial court was advised [by his counsel] of the actual immigration consequences before entering his pleato enable the defendant to seek advice from counsel about the people v. patterson (2017) 2 cal.5th 885, 896.) thus, an advisement by the sentencing court, where (as here) not followed by a request from the defendant for more time to consider his plea or confer with counsel, tends to show counsel adequately advised the defendant regarding immigration consequences. (see tapia, at p. 579 fter being specifically advised by the trial court his plea would lead to his deportation and denial of readmission to the united states, [the defendant] did not request more time to speak with counsel or further consider the appropriateness of entering a pleafirmatively stated he understood this advisement from the trial court)5 thus, t here to dvisement does not establish the trial court applied the wrong statute. and nothing else about the trial ambriz suggests the trial court erred in not vacating his conviction under section 1473.7 because his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by not properly advis[ing] [him] of the immigration consequences or in the alternative recommend[ing] that he seek an 5 as we will discussdvisement regarding immigration consequences may also be relevant to determining whether any error claimed by the defendant was, as section 1473.7, subdivision (a)(1), requires, prejudicial. 8 entered his plea. ambriz, however, has satisfied neither of the two requirements for showing ineffective assistance of counsel. first, he has not demonstrated his was deficient. ambriz testified that, prior to entering his plea, on [his] immigration statusambriz did not say anything more about the specifics of what his trial counsel told him.6 this waperformance by counsel. (see people v. datt (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 942, 9if his counsel did not recommend he speak with an immigration attorney and gave him only five minutes to decide how to plead, ambriz cites no authority suggesting these actions constituted deficient performanceparticularly where there is no evidence 6 point because he also stated, as he had in his declaration, that his counsel did not inform him that a conviction for the charges he faced would affect his immigration status. the trial court made do not reevaluate tapia, supra, 26 cal.app.5th at p. 953; see ibid. finding [the defendant] was advised of the specific immigration consequences of his plea and the effect the plea would have on his legal resident statushe only evidence he was not advised of the specific immigration consequences of his plea is [his] own self-serving declaration, claiming he was not told of the immigration consequencespeople v. cruz-lopez (2018) 27 cal.app.5th 212, 223-224 n allegation that trial counsel failed to properly advise a defendant is meaningless unless there failures 9 he expressed any lack of understanding about the immigration consequences of his plea or asked for more time to make a decision. (see tapia, supra, 26 cal.app.5th at p. 952.) second, ambriz has not demonstrated that the purported iced him. in his declaration in support of his motion and his testimony at the hearing on the motion, ambriz maintained that, had his counsel advised him properly and given him more time, he would have consulted an immigration attorney, rejected the plea deal, and taken his case to trial. (see ogunmowo, supra, 23 cal.app.5th at performance deprived him of a trial by causing him to accept a plea, the defendant can show prejudice by demonstrating a not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to without corroborating evidence, however, these statements did not establish prejudice. (see people v. martinez that is not supported by an explanation or other corroborating in re resendiz (2001) 25 cal.4th 230, 253 competpadilla v. kentucky (2010) 559 u.s. 356, 370; ogunmowo, at p. 78 ourts should not upset a plea solely because of post hoc assertions from a defendant about how he would have pleadedudges should instead look to contemporaneous evidence to substantiate ].) pallares added little to establish a reasonable probability ambriz would have entered a different plea had he spoken with an immigration attorney. before accepting his plea, the sentencing court advised ambriz of what pallares said was 10 ambriz, namely, that his conviction would result in deportation. and hypothetical advice that ambriz should have rejected the plea deal in favor of going to trial because, either way, a conviction ignores the fact that those purposes were not the only consideration bearing on s decision. ambriz faced a maximum prison term of four years on the cocaine charge and three years on the methamphetamine charge; accepting the deal and pleading no contest meant receiving a sentence of probation. indeed, that see tapia, supra, 26 cal.app.5th at p. 955 plea bargain allowing for a quick release from custody to avoid any immigration holds also provided a better resolution for immigration purposes) disposition the trial mbrize his conviction is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 