filed 5/13/19 p. v. gutierrez ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. sergio anthony gutierrez, defendant and appellant. b287930 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va136976) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, roger ito, judge. conditionally reversed and remanded. mark r. feeser, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and douglas l. wilson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 sergio a. gutierrez appeals his convictions for first degree felony murder and two counts of home invasion robbery after he and several accomplices entered his home and robbed his parents, resulting in death. he claims the trial court erred and violated his constitutional rights when it admitted his pretrial confession, contending his waiver of his miranda1 rights was involuntary. we disagree. however, we conditionally reverse and remand for the juvenile court to conduct a transfer hearing pursuant to welfare and institutions code section 707, as amended by proposition 57, because gutierrez was 17 years old at the time he committed his crimes. we also direct the trial court on remand to recalculate procedural background gutierrez and one accomplice, a.e., were jointly tried before separate juries.2 following trial, gutierrez was convicted of first degree felony murder of his father (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)),3 and two counts of home invasion robbery ( 211). the jury found true a special circumstance allegation that gutierrez committed murder in the course of a robbery. ( 190.2, subd. (a)(17).) he was sentenced to 25 years to life. 1 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 2 a third accomplice, j.a., was tried separately. a fourth accomplice, r.a., was committed to the california youth authority in 2015. 3 all undesignated statutory citations refer to the penal code. 3 factual background we recite only the facts necessary to resolve the miranda issue gutierrez raises on appeal. the evidence at trial generally showed in the early morning hours of september 20, 2014, 17-year-old gutierrez, along with accomplices a.e., j.a., and r.a., them. his father sergio died after he was put in a chokehold and stabbed.4 gutierrez and j.a. were arrested around 24 hours later. after his arrest, gutierrez was interviewed by detectives duval and salerno. he described at length his strained relationship with his father, his robbery, and death. his account was largely consistent with the this video-recorded interview was played for the jury and forms the basis for main argument on appeal. before questioning began, duval duval duval duval asked iduval read him his rights, and gutierrez indicated he understood each of them. 4 blanca to avoid confusion. 4 gutierrez described his negative relationship with his father, saying his father lost trust with one another. thaving physical altercations with his father, his father calling him ,and the two arguing non-stop. his father also did not like j.a. and believed he was a bad influence. when j.a. came over, threaten him. in mid- door, at gutierrez described a physical altercation during which his but gutierrez held back from hitting him. at that point he had threatened his father in response to his father threatening him. gutierrez admitted he parents. like i just kept thinking should i or should i not? he began planning the home invasion robbery a couple of days before it occurred (although he also said he had been talking about it a week prior). he discussed it first with j.a., and then with a.e. got caught. the purpose was not to kill sergio, but to tell him like, this is for likegonna kick my ass and stuff like that. . . . i proved to you that i the plan was also to steal 5 clothes, food, and shelter. gutierrez feared he would be homeless after the attack. on the day before the robberyfriday, september 19, 2014gutierrez got out of school and went with j.a., a.e., and two other friends to meet his girlfriend. gutierrez knew if he did not incapacitate his mother, she would call the police, so they planned to spray a cloth with cologne and put it over her face, believing that would render her unconscious. j.a. agreed to do it. 9:00 p.m. gutierrez told his friends to wait somewhere in the neighborhood until his parents went to sleep, and he would let them in the house . at around 12:30 a.m., when his parents were asleep, gutierrez let his friends in the house. gutierrez gave a.e. a knife from the kitchen but told him to use it only to defend himself or threaten sergio. gutierrez then created a ruse to get his mother to come into his bedroom, where j.a. was waiting. gutierrez attacked her and held her down as she screamed for sergio for help. j.a. put a cologne-soaked rag over her mouth to knock her out. as he at my dad did and . . . side and defending him sergio turned on some lights and locked the front door. from behind with the knife. they fought, and a.e. dropped the knife, which gutierrez picked up. sergio grabbed the knife by the blade and fell with a.e. to the floor. as sergio got up, he impaled himself on the knife gutierrez was holding. gutierrez feared his father would rush him, so he stabbed him multiple 6 times. a.e. put sergio in a headlock, and he cried out for help, saying a.e. was killing him. gutierrez went and asked his mother for the pin code for her credit card, which she told him. a.e. released sergio from the headlock and told gutierrez he still had a pulse. j.a. put a blanket on . gutierrez took two credit cards, a small amoand fled with the others they abandoned the car and later in the day, gutierrez, j.a., and another friend went to a mall, where gutierrez and j.a. purchased items of clothing gutierrez learned he was on the news and wanted by police. he and j.a. went to downtown los angeles, withdrew $200 from an atm machine, and tried to secure a hotel room. they ended up in montebello, where they were arrested. gutierrez denied a fourth accomplice was involved in the robbery. toward the end of the interview, gutierrez asked questions about how he would be treated as a minor. salerno told him he was going to jail and could be charged with murder because sergio died. gutierrez was surprised about his death; he had been told his father was pronounced dead, but he did not believe it. salerno said he could be tried as an adult and it was up to the district attorney to decide what charges to bring. gutierrez indicated he understood and did not express any surprise about the information. 7 gutierrez testified in his defense at trial. although he he otherwise contradicted most of what he said during his interview. he testified when he was with a.e. and j.a. on september 19, 2014, they did not have any conversations about committing a robbery, breaking into a house, or harming his father. he said cause yohis parents because a.e. was with two accomplicesj.a. and r.a. guto participate in the robbery. he took the credit cards from his pin code. both a.e. and r.a. had knives, and a.e. attacked sergio. gutierrez was unable to help because j.a. was threatening him. still fearing for his safety, he complied with their commands to drive them away from his house. they then abandoned the car. gutierrez was forced into some apartments n he was told to leave. he did not go home or to the police. he went to the mall, eventually reconnected with j.a. and was arrested. gutierrez testified his statements to the detectives during his interview were false. he was scared to tell the truth in light of 8 a.e. testified none of gutie a.e. se or threatening him. instead, he recounted the incident consistent with statements in his interview with detectives. a.e. added that about two months prior to the crime, gutierrez first discussed robbing his parents of $8,000 cash he said was in the house. a.e. also testified he held sergio down in a chokehold as gutierrez stabbed sergio several times in the back. a.e. wanted to call 911 for sergio9-1-1, the police are gonna come anart asking a.e. eventually turned himself into police. gutierrez retook the stand and testified a.e. was lying that gutierrez planned the robbery and stabbed sergio. gutierrez also denied knowing about any cash in his par detective duvrebuttal testimony duval testified he administered miranda rights to gutierrez before his interview and made no promises to get him to speak. during the interview, gutierrez freely explained he planned the crimes and never said he was forced to do anything on the night of the robbery. duval duval statements were basically consistent with his testimony at trial. discussion i. miranda waiver was voluntary and properly admitted at trial gutierrez contends the trial court erred and violated his constitutional rights by admitting his custodial interview with 9 police because his miranda waiver was involuntary based on three facts: (1) he was 17 years old at the time with no experience with the criminal justice system; (2) the detectives to with an adult and was instead told his mother was on his side and wanted him to speak to police. we find no error. standard of review gutierrez did not expressly waive his miranda rights, but people v. nelson (2012) 53 cal.4th 367, 375.) of miranda rights, the prosecution must show by a preponderance of the evidence that the waiver was knowing, id. at pp. 374375.) a court must s at issue, consideration must be given to background, and intelligence, and . . . whether he has the capacity to understand the warnings given him, the nature of his fifth amendment rights, and the consequences of waiving those id. at p. 375.) decision to admit a confession, determination of disputed facts if supported by substantial evidence, but we independently decide whether the challenged statements were obtained in violation of mirandapeople v. lessie (2010) 47 cal.4th 1152, 1169.) 10 procedural background before trial, gutierrez moved to suppress his interview at a hearing on the motion, the prosecutor played for the court the first portion of the video-recorded interview, during which duval asked gutierrez if he was nervous and told him he had dged he was duval read him his rights, which gutierrez indicated he understood. gutierrez testified he was interviewed in a different room before the interview on the recording. according to him, in this first interviewwhich was not recordedthe same detectives could talk, that she was on my side, that everything would be gutierrez interpreted their assurance in this first interview and later on the video otherwise spoken to the detectives, and he believed he would be leaving the same day. it was the first time he had ever been arrested or read his miranda rights. on cross-examination, gutierrez said he learned of his we went to go visit your mom at the hospital, that she said that he acknowledged during the recorded interview the detectives never he also acknowledged during 11 the portion of the recorded interview when he talked about possibly going to jail, he never said he thought he was going home. before hearing argument from counsel, the court confirmed gutierrez never said during the recorded interview he believed he could go home or would get immunity or leniency. the prosecutor argued he had been surprised to hear of the existence of this first interview. he did not knduval their testimony, the court would have to reserve ruling. in any recorded interview to show free will was overcome, even believing his testimony about the first interview. he pointed out gutierrez first brought up the possibility of going to jail. defense counsel argued the detectives made an implied promise at the start of the recorded interview when they told because gutierrez was a minor. in finding the prosecution showed by a preponderance of the evidence , the court exp[e]ven if this court was to accept mr. -[blown] interview took place ahead of time, none of that is born[e] out in the course of his interview subsequent to miranda. so assuming arguendo that they questioned him with some degree of specificity before they actually mirandized him, which i find no infirmity with the nature of miranda, the fact that he indicated he understood the miranda advisement and he agreed to speak and continued to speak, and the fact that, in the course of the subsequent 12 going to be in any kind of tranything about the subsequent interview that is corroborative of that hethey had gave him some promise of immunity or leniency, anything along those lines, nothing about his subsequent interview suggests that. [] even assuming arguendo that he was given a pre-interview, that does not overbear or does not overcome the fact that he was properly mirandized. it would not have overcome his voluntariness of his statement or his free will. [] i viewed the video. it does not appear to be a coercive environment by [any] means. as a matter g to go ahead and find that the statement is voluntary and find that the miranda analysis testimony he was interviewed in an unrecorded session prior to the recorded interview. like the trial court, we find nothing to suggest his miranda waiver during the recorded interview was in any way involuntary or coerced. gutierrez was 17 years and three months old at the time of the interview, close to the age of majority. there was no evidence he suffered from any mental defect, and he expressed no confusion or hesitation when he was read his rights, acknowledging he understood each of them. when asked if he was nervous the trial 13 court noted the video recording of the interview did not reflect any sort of coercive environment. likewise, the transcript of the interview does not suggest any coercion, but rather it demonstrates gutierrez spoke freely about the robbery. while gutierrez had never been arrested or read his miranda rights before, he acknowledged he was familiar with them. his questions at the end of the interview about potential charges, jail time, and his status as a minor demonstrated a level of maturity and sophistication about the consequences of his crimes. both before and during the recorded interview by telling him he and he would be allowed to leave. even if these statements could be considered in some way coercive, the transcript of the recorded interview belies any suggestion they rendered his miranda waiver involuntary. gutierrez did not mention during the interview he was promised he could leave; to the contrary, he must have anticipated facing charges because he asked about how he would be treated as a minor. he also expressed no surprise when he was told he could be charged as an adult and could go to jail. at the suppression hearing he testified he was never promised any immunity or leniency and was never which did not overcome the evidence of voluntariness reflected in the recorded interview. gutierrez also claims the drelationship with his mother to persuade him to waive his right it was 14 talk to them.5 again, this statement does not overcome the evidence from the recorded interview showing he voluntarily waived his miranda rights. his for gutierrez to speak with the detectives was at best weak encouragement to waive his right to remain silent, and his statements during the interview reflected a mature, informed waiver of his rights regardless of this assurance.6 the prosecution carried its burden to show by a preponderance of the evidence that his wavier was voluntary, so his interview statements were property admitted. 5 at one point in his recorded interview, gutierrez said, later in the interview, duval said he had lied to gutierrez and the detectives had talked to his mother. these comments strongly undermine testimony at the suppression hearing that the detectives told him they had spoken with her. the trial court did not make a credibility finding, so we merely note this inconsistency. 6 gutierrez argues statement was particularly problematic because she had a conflict of interest. for support, he cites a dissent from an order denying certiorari in little v. arkansas (1978) 435 u.s. 957. a dissent from the denial of certiorari has decline to rely on it. (in re i.f. (2018) 20 cal.app.5th 735, 764.) in any case, miranda waiver will be evaluated under the totality of the circumstances, regardless of the presence or id. at p. 765.) as we have explained, the totality of the circumstances voluntary despite any statement from his mother that it would be 15 ii. gutierrez is entitled to a juvenile transfer hearing when gutierrez was charged in february 2016, the prosecutor was permitted to file the charges against him directly in adult criminal court even though he was a juvenile at the time of his crimes. that changed with proposition 57, which went into effect on november 9, 2016, after gutierrez was tried and convicted but before he was sentenced. prosecutors from charging juveniles with crimes directly in adult court. instead, they must commence the action in juvenile court. if the prosecution wishes to try the juvenile as an adult, the to determine whether the matter should remain in juvenile court or be transferred to adult court. only if the juvenile court transfers the matter to adult court can the juvenile be tried and sentenced as an adult. (people v. superior court (lara) (2018) 4 cal.5th 299, 303 (lara).) on july 20, 2017after proposition 57 was enacted but before lara was decided and gutierrez was sentenceddefense counsel moved for a juvenile transfer hearing. the trial court denied the motion, finding proposition 57 did not apply because gutierrez was charged before its enactment. the court also denied a motion for reconsideration. gutierrez was sentenced on january 31, 2018. he filed a notice of appeal the same day. on february 1, 2018, the california supreme court decided lara, holding proposition 57 applied to all juveniles charged directly in adult court whose convictions were not final when proposition 57 was enacted. (lara, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 304.) on april 30, 2018, gutierrez filed a petition to recall his sentence and remand his case to juvenile court. the court held a 16 hearing on june 29, 2018. according to a minute order, the court noted lara conditionally reversed in order to transfer the matter to juvenile court [for a juvenile transfer hearing]transfer motion hearing in the juvenile court for july 20, 2018. there is no indication in the record before us whether that hearing has taken place. respondent suggests the trial because it was issued more than 120 days after sentencing. (see  1170, subd. (d) days of the date of commitment on its own motion . . . recall the sentence and commitment previously ordered and resentence the y its terms, section 1170 permits a trial court to recall sentence and conduct a resentencing. although gutierrez filed a his sentence, the trial court did not recall his sentence and resentence him; it conditionally reversed his conviction in response to lara. however, both the order and any juvenile transfer hearing held at the direction of the trial court were void because gutierrez had filed his notice of appeal, which divested the trial court of jurisdiction. with limited exceptions not jurisdiction of the cause in the appellate court until by protecting the status quo so that an appeal is not rendered futile by alteration. [citations.] as a result of this rule, the trial court lacks jurisdiction to make any order affecting a judgment, and any action taken by the trial court while the appeal is 17 people v. scarbrough (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 916, 923.) certainly, conditionally reversing conviction affects the judgment, so both the order and any resulting juvenile transfer hearing were void. we are disinclined to require a court to expend resources conducting potentially duplicative work. but the parties agree, as do we, that gutierrez is entitled to a juvenile transfer hearing. if a hearing has been held, it was invalid. so, we will the juvenile court to conduct a valid juvenile transfer hearing pursuant to proposition 57 following remittitur. the court in lara endorsed the disposition reached in people v. vela (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 1099 (vela), which provided the following instructions to the trial court following remand from the california supreme court: these reversed and we order the juvenile court to conduct a juvenile transfer hearing. ([welf. & inst. code,]  707.) when conducting the transfer hearing, the juvenile court shall, to the extent possible, treat the matter as though the prosecutor had originally filed a juvenile petition in juvenile court and had then moved to ([welf. & inst. code,]  707, subd. (a)(1).) if, after conducting the juvenile transfer hearing, the court determines it would have transferred vela to a court of criminal jurisdiction because he is reinstated. ([welf. & inst. code,]  707.1, subd. (a).) the court is to resentence vela consistent within the bounds of its discretion as discussed within the following section of this opinion [dealing with firearm 18 enhancements]. on the other hand, if the juvenile court finds that it would not have transferred vela to a court of criminal (vela, supra, at p. 1113; see lara, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 310; see also people v. phung (2018) 25 cal.app.5th 741, 762 [adopting same instructions].) we will echo these instructions as part of the disposition of this case to provide guidance to the juvenile court in conducting a valid transfer hearing on remand. iii. the trial court should recalculate presentence custody credits gutierrez was granted 572 days of custody credits, and he contends he should have been granted an additional 657 days, for a total of 1,229 days of custody credits. his contention appears correcthe was arrested on september 21, 2014 and was sentenced on january 31, 2018, a duration of 1,229 days. (see  2900.5, subd. (a) [credit accrues camp, work furlough facility, halfway house, rehabilitation facility, hospital, prison, juvenile detention facility, or similar but on this record, we decline to correct the judgment to add custody credits and instead direct the trial court to recalculate them on remand.7 7 counsel moved the trial court to correct his credits. the trial court declined to recalculate the credits because the case had been transferred to juvenile court. 19 disposition the judgment is conditionally reversed. we remand the matter to the juvenile court with directions to conduct a transfer hearing as discussed in this opinion, no later than 90 days from the filing of the remittitur. if at the transfer hearing the juvenile court determines it would not have transferred gutierrez to a court of criminal jurisdiction, then his criminal convictions will be deemed juvenile adjudications as of this date. the juvenile court should then conduct a dispositional hearing within its usual time frame. if the juvenile court determines at the transfer hearing it would have transferred gutierrez to a court of criminal jurisdiction, then the judgment shall be reinstated as of that date. the trial court is directepresentence custody credits. if the court awards additional credit, it is directed to issue an amended abstract of judgment and forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. bigelow, p. j. we concur: stratton, j. wiley, j. 