 filed 11/13/18 p. v. dubnyakov ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. arseniy dubnyakov, defendant and appellant. b287071 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la082859) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eric p. harmon, judge. affirmed. leonard j. klaif, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and kristen j. inberg, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction arseniy dubnyakov appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by jury of resisting an officer, driving under the influence of alcohol, and fleeing a pursuing officer. appellant challenges his sentence under penal code section 654. 1 he argues that the charges of resisting an officer and driving under the influence were based on the same conduct, and therefore the trial court should have stayed the sentence on one of those counts. we disagree and affirm. factual and procedural history a. procedural background the los angeles county district attorney (the people) charged appellant in an amended information with the following counts: resisting an executive officer (pen. code,  69; count one); driving under the influence of alcohol (dui) within ten years of three other dui offenses (veh. code,  23152, subd. (a) and 23550; count two); assault upon a peace officer ( 245, subd.(c); , a misdemeanor (veh. code,  2800.1, subd.(a); count four). the information further alleged as to count two that appellant refused to submit to a chemical test and drove a vehicle 30 or more miles per hour over the speed limit (veh. code,  23612, 23103).2 1all further statutory references herein are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2the information also alleged as to counts one and two that appellant served a prior prison term ( 667.5, subd.(b)). the people subsequently dismissed that allegation. 3 at the conclusion of trial, the jury found defendant guilty of resisting an officer (count one), driving under the influence (count the jury further found true the allegation in count two that appellant refused to submit to a chemical test. the jury was unable to reach a verdict on the assault charge in count three and appellant admitted his prior dui convictions. the trial court sentenced appellant to the upper term of three years on count two as the base count, a consecutive term of eight months (one-third the mid-term) on count one, and a consecutive term of 364 days on count four. the court stayed the sentence on count four pursuant to section 654. appellant timely appealed. b. prosecution case officer michael neuner of the california highway patrol (chp) testified that he was on patrol on january 25, 2016, in uniform and in a marked chp vehicle. around 2:00 a.m., he and his partner were conducting a routine traffic stop in north hollywood. as he was talking to the driver he had stopped, he heard another vehicle and saw a white bmw m3 approaching. as it passed, the driver of the bmw revved the engine loudly and then accelerated. neuner and his partner left the other driver and pursued the bmw. neuner estimated the bmw reached speeds up to 90 miles per hour in a 35 miles-per-hour zone. after about 1.75 miles, they observed the bmw turn into the driveway of an apartment complex and stop at the closed gate. the officers activated their lights and siren, then pulled over and got out to approach the bmw. neuner testified that he could not see into the bmw because the back window was tinted. 4 he approached the passenger side of the bmw with his weapon the passenger-side window was down, allowing neuner to see the driver, whom he described as a white male about 30 years old, with dark hair and a fair complexion, wearing a dark blue camouflage patterned shirt. neuner identified the bmw driver as appellant at trial. appellant to either stop or turn off the car. appellant stared straight ahead; then, as soon as the gate opened, he drove into the complex. still inside the car. as a result, he was dragged alongside the car and the car hit his left side. he was able to move to the right to avoid hitting the gate and was not injured. neuner then returned to his patrol car and he and his partner pursued the bmw.3 they found the abandoned car in a parking structure in the apartment complex. neuner searched the vehicle and found name and photograph. was registered to appellant and monica sanchez. after searching the bmw, the officers spoke to the security guard at the complex gate, who told them which unit appellant lived in. the officers went to the apartment unit, but no one was there. other chp officers arrived as backup on the scene. officer from his identification card. royal was outside the complex completing the paperwork to tow the bmw when he saw a man talking on a cell phone about 40 to 50 feet away and watching 3the entire incident was recorded on video surveillance by the chp vehicle's camera. this video was played for the jury. 5 what royal was doing. royal recognized the man as the suspect from his photo; at trial, royal identified the man as appellant. royal and another officer started walking toward appellant, who began to run. one of the officers found appellant a short time later, lying face down nearby in some tall grass. after appellant was detained, neuner identified him as the driver of the bmw. neuner also testified that he immediately detected a moderate odor of alcohol from appellant's breath and body, and noticed appellant's eyes were watery and a little bit red. appellant also tripped over a small bush. neuner opined ons, including speeding and failing to stop, were consistent with being under the influence of alcohol. neuner tried to speak to appellant, but appellant appellant also neuner contacted chp dispatch, which provided a russian translator by speakerphone. neuner could not conduct most field sobriety tests because appellant was handcuffed. but, with the assistance of the translator, he did administer one test that did not require appellant to use his hands. neuner opined that appellant's performance on that test was consistent with someone impaired due to alcohol and with a blood alcohol level above .08. appellant was arrested. after appellant was transported to the jail, neuner advised him that he was required by law to submit to a chemical test to determine his blood alcohol level. security guard jesus pineda was working in the apartment complex at the time. he testified that he was familiar with the 6 white bmw and had only seen appellant driving the car. that night, he heard the car coming, and recognized the sound of the exhaust, so he flipped the switch to open the gate. then he heard the police sirens and flipped the switch to close the gate, but it was not able to close immediately. he could hear the commands from officer neuner to stop the vehicle and exit. two other officers testified they had interacted with appellant in 2012 and 2018. both times, appellant spoke clearly in english. c. defense case tyler vela, the manager of the apartment complex, testified that the lease listed monica sanchez as the only resident. discussion appellant argues that the counts for resisting an officer (count one) and dui (count two) alleged a single course of conduct with a single objective, and therefore that the court should have stayed the sentence on count one under section 654. we disagree and affirm. section 654, subdithat is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be ppeople v. hester (2000) 22 cal.4th 290, 294.) of his or her offenses, determine whether multiple offenses constitute an indivisible course of conduct. (people v. hicks (1993) 6 cal.4th 784, 789.) a defendant who acts pursuant to a 7 single objective may be found to have harbored a single intent and therefore may be punished only once. (ibid.) if, on the other were independent of and not merely incidental to each other, he may be punished for each statutory violation committed in pursuit of each objecticommon acts or were parts of an otherwise indivisible course of people v. beamon (1973) 8 cal.3d 625, 639, disapproved on other grounds by people v. mendoza (2000) 23 cal.4th 896.) but even if a course of directed to one objective,give rise to multiple violations and punishment (people v. deegan (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 532, 542, quoting people v. beamon, supra, 8 cal.3d at p. 639, fn. 11.) where the reflect and to renew his or her intent before committing the next [offense], thereby aggravating the violation of public security or (people v. gaio (2000) 81 cal.app.4th 919, 935.) a given series of offenses is for the trial court, and the law gives the trial court broad latitude in making this determination. its findings on this question must be upheld on appeal if there is any (people v. hutchins (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 1308, 1312; see also people v. saffle (1992) 4 cal.app.4th 434, 438.) we view the evidence in the light most favorable to the sentence and presume in support thereof the existence of every fact the trier of fact reasonably could deduce 8 from the evidence. (hutchins, supra, 90 cal.app.4th at pp. 1312-1313.) here, count one charged appellant with resisting an officer pursuant to section 69, subdivision (a), which applies to any deter or prevent an executive officer from performing any duty imposed upon the officer by law, or who knowingly resists, by the use of force or violence, the officer, in the performance of his or committed count one when he drove his car into the apartment complex with officer neuner leaning into the window. in count two, appellant was charged with driving under the influence of alcohol, in violation of vehicle code section 23152, subdivision (a). as evidence that appellant was driving while impaired, the including revving his engine and speeding past chp officers, driving more than 30 miles-per-hour above the speed limit, driving away from an officer with his gun drawn, and then leaving his car and fleeing on footas well as the physical signs of impairment appellant exhibited, the results oattempts to evade detection by refusing the chemical test and refusing to speak english. conversely, the court found that count fcourt stayed the sentence for count four. we conclude that appellaact of driving under the influence. the evidence supported the 9 well before any conduct taken to flee pursuing peace officers, and therefore that the intent for the two acts was different. appellant argues that section 654 is implicated here people v. bas (1987) 194 cal.app.3d 878 and people v. hendrix (2018) 20 cal.app.5th 457 is unavailing. both cases are concerned with the provision of section 654 prohibiting multiple prosecutions for the same act. (bas, supra, 194 cal.app.3d at p. 880; hendrix, supra, 20 cal.app.5th at pp. 460-461.) as the hendrix both multiple punishment and multiple prosecution, these (people v. valli (hendrix, supra, 20 cal.app.5th at p. 461.) the question for multiple prosecutions play[ed] a significant part (id. at pp. 461462.) appellant cannot rely on this test here, where the issue is sentencing, rather than prosecution. moreover, all of the of the applicability of section 654, and therefore do not assist him. (see people v. mcguire (1993) 14 cal.app.4th 687; people v. houghton (1963) 212 cal.app.2d 864.) there was sufficient evidence that appellant harbored different objectives in committing the dui and then resisting officer neuner. we therefore affirm. 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: manella, p. j. willhite, j. 