 filed 1/23/19 p. v. hernandez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. hector hernandez, defendant and appellant. b288853 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta144336) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura r. walton and patrick connolly, judges. affirmed. james renteria, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 defendant hector hernandez was charged with possession for sale of a controlled substance (methamphetamine) in violation of health and safety code section 11378 (count 1).1 the information also alleged that on may 15, 2012, he had suffered a prior conviction in case no. ta123182 for possession of a controlled substance in violation of section 11351. after a bench trial, the trial court found defendant guilty as charged and found true the prior conviction allegation. defendant appeals from the resulting judgment of conviction. dbrief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, identifying no issues and requesting that this court review the record and determine whether any arguable issue exists on appeal. we have reviewed the record, conclude the record reveals no arguable issue on appeal, and thus affirm. factual background the following is a summary of the testimony in the december 22, 2017 court trial before judge patrick connolly.2 on september 25, 2017, defendant was a passenger in a car traveling in compton. deputy sheriffs wilson ordonez and gabriel moran initiated a traffic stop. deputy ordonez approached the passenger seat of the car and noticed defendant making movements with his left hand near the center console 1 undesignated statutory citations are to the health and safety code. 2 we refer to the trial judges by name because of the nature of defendant claims in his supplemental appeal briefs, which we describe in our discussion section. 3 and high. deputy ordonez asked defendant, do you have a weapon or anything i need to worry about? mr. tengo cristal, the reporter recorded as i have cristal. deputy moran also heard defendant crystal. upon arresting and searching defendant, deputy ordonez recovered a clear plastic bag containing a substance the officer believed to be methamphetamine. also containing a substance resembling methamphetamine. the officer found in the same pocket a second similar bindle apparently containing methamphetamine. deputy moran witnessed the recovery of these items as well, and believed they contained methamphetamine. deputy ordonez testified that defendant did not appear to be under the influence of methamphetamine and did not have drug paraphernalia at the time of his arrest. deputy moran testified that the officers read defendant his miranda3 rights in spanish. defendant signed a miranda waiver, which was marked as exhibit 4. defendant wrote on that exhibit in spanish the following translated statement: what they found on me is mine. i selli just sell dimes. i only sell small amounts. deputy moran recounted that defendant also the a criminalist testified that he tested the substance in one of the bags retrieved from defendant, and that it contained methamphetamine. the bag weighed a little over 26 grams. he 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). 4 weighed, but did not test the substances in the other two bags. items was and responded affirmatively that this was the weight for both of tho deputy moran provided expert testimony based upon his training and experience, that defendant possessed the drugs for sale and not personal use. he based this opinion of the narcotics, the suspect not being under the influence, the suspect not possessing any paraphernalia, and the suspect admitting deputy moran further opined that the average narcotics user possesses one to two grams of methamphetamine for personal use, far less than the over 26 grams recovered from defendant. defendant testified in his defense. he admitted having was . . . he acknowledged being an addict and that he used methamphetamine for three-day periods without sleeping. when asked how much methamphetamine he ingested he reiterated that when he was arrested, the methamphetamine found in his pocket was only for personal use. he also stated there was only one bag of methamphetamine in his pocket, not three. based on the rap sheet, the trial court allowed the charging document to be interlineated convictionjuly 26, 2012. the trial court found defendant guilty as charged for possession of a controlled substance for sale and found true the allegation that defendant 5 had a prior conviction. the trial court found further corroboration in the written statement in exhibit 4 that it contrary while the trial court was announcing its decision.4 procedural background we set forth below additional procedural events relevant to this appeal. on october 13, 2017, judge joel m. wallenstein presided over the preliminary hearing. at that hearing, defense counsel told judge wallenstein his client would plead to a possession charge, but counsel did not know how to get a better deal than of 30 days of service with 17 days credit with the california department of transportation grams at the december 15, 2017 pretrial conference at which judge laura r. walton presided, judge walton noted that the people had offered time served. defense counsel explained that defendant was concerned about whether accepting the deal would result in his being deported. defense counsel indicated that the big in a different courthouse, which could subject defendant to deportation anyhow were he found guilty in that case. defendant then waived trial by jury. when asked by the prosecutor whether he wished to give up his right to a jury as to g[y] 4 we note that at the preliminary hearing, officer ordonez testified that defendant wrote the statement himself. 6 defendant [y] defense counsel joined in the jury trial waiver. judge walton set a december 22, 2017 trial date. defendant then requested a continuance to attempt to locate a witness. judge walton was amenable to the continuance. when the prosecutor objected because his witnesses had been subpoenaed for the december 22, 2017 trial date, the judge denied the continuance also noting that the information was filed on october 26, 2017. at the sentencing hearing on february 2, 2018, at which judge patrick connolly presided, defendant made what judge connolly treated as an oral marsden5 motion. we detail the hearing on that motion because defendant raised issues there that he also discusses in his supplemental appeal briefs. defendant asserted that his attorney promised to transfer the case to the courtroom handling his other case, apparently involving a penal code section 243 charge. judge connolly did not believe defense counsel made such a promise given that the judge himself did not have the power to make that promise. defendant faulted his counsel for pressuring him to waive a jury. he also claimed defense counsel promised to bring a witness. defense counsel responded that the witness would not testify that the drugs were his and did not want to be involved. under to call that witness. he also explained one reason for encouraging a bench trialthe large quantity of methamphetamine defendant had at the time of his arrest. 5 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). 7 judge connolly denied the marsden motion and told defendant that he could represent himself if he did not want defense counsel to represent him. after giving defendant time to continued representation. at the february 2, 2018 sentencing hearing, judge connolly o accept the [ed]immigration concerns. judge connolly then selected the low term of 16 months for count 1, which defense counsel had requested, and imposed a consecutive three-year enhancement pursuant to section 11370.2, subdivision (c) for defendantconviction. judge connolly allowed defendant to serve his sentence in county jail. judge connolly also indicated his intent ordered in the other case if defendant were convicted in that other case. three-year sentence on the prior conviction enhancement. he awarded total credits of 258 days. he also imposed fines and fees. on february 28, 2018, judge connolly struck the prior has he then resentenced defendant to the high term of 3 years in county jail. this resulted in a 16-month reduction of sentence. defendant received total credits of 310 days. judge connolly stated, [e] discussion defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. we appointed counsel to represent defendant. after examining the record, 8 counsel filed a wende brief raising no issues on appeal and requesting that we independently review the record. (people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436.) this court and his counsel advised defendant of the opportunity to file a supplemental brief. defendant filed three supplemental briefs, one on december 6, 2018 and two on december 17, 2018. on january 8, 2019, appellant requested leave to file a fourth supplthe new- he does not describe these -request is untimely, we nonetheless grant defendant permission to file the request. ruling on the merits of his request to file a fourth supplemental brief, we cannot consider evidence that was not part of the record below. (pulver v. avco financial services (1986) 182 cal.app.3d 622, 631-632; see also people v. ray (1956) 146 cal.app.2d 257, 260.) accordingly, we deny motion to file a fourth supplemental brief - on january 14, 2019, the same day, we denied that request. defendant makes the following arguments in his three supplemental briefs: (1) he did not have the opportunity to testify before a jury and his lawyer gave him bad advice and was not explain myself or tell my story what really happen[e][n] . . . again[s][ ] use[d] the 9 the drugs,paraphernalia, cash, or a scale at the crime scene, and he had a legitimate food truck business; (7) judge judge patt was showing his frustration again[s](8) criticized judge walton when defendant requested a trial continuance; (9) defendant wanted another trial before a different judge; and (10) when he waived jury, he expected to be in front of we conclude that defendant has not demonstrated reversible error. defendant testified at trial. judge connolly gave him wide berth when defendant recounted the events. judge connolly did not interrupt him or otherwise make second, to the extent defendant asks us to credit his view of the evidence, we cannot do so. on appeal, we do not reweigh evidence or make credibility determinations. we are required to make all inferences in favor of the judgment. (see people v. boyer (2006) 38 cal.4th 412, 480.) the main issue at trial was whether the methamphetamine found on defendant at the time of arrest was for personal use or sale. about the facts supporting an inference of possession for sale were substantial evidence of possession for sale in support of judge 10 third, the record does not reflect that judge connolly was biased against defendant because defendant chose not to -served offer. for example, judge connolly did not assess the maximum sentence and allowed defendant to serve his sentence in county jail and his time to run concurrently with custody time, if any, imposed in the case in the other courthouse. request, judge walton was well within her discretion to deny that request because of concerns about witness availability and the age of the case. (see people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 650.) defense counsel, including advice to waive a jury, as arguments that defendant received ineffective assistance of counsel. these arguments are more appropriately raised by a writ of habeas corpus because the record on appeal is insufficient (see people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1003.) we have examined the entire record and are satisfied that appellate attorney has complied with his responsibilities and that no arguable issue exists. (people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at pp. 438-441; see also smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284.) 11 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. johnson, j. 