filed 9/4/19 p. v. hamilton ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. karl benito hamilton, defendant and appellant. b288219 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya095774) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, scott t. millington, judge. reversed with directions. elizabeth richardson-royer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and peggy z. huang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 on november 17, 2017, a jury convicted karl benito hamilton of felony driving or taking a vehicle in violation of vehicle code section 10851, subdivision (a). hamilton admitted a prior strike conviction (pen. code,  667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12) and having served three prior prison terms (id.,  667.5, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced him to the middle term of two years, doubled to four years as a second strike, plus two years for two of the prior prison terms. on november 30, 2017, the california supreme court held in people v. page (2017) 3 cal.5th 1175 (page) that the provisions of proposition 471 apply to a conviction under vehicle code section 10851. on appeal, hamilton contends that his conviction must be reduced to a misdemeanor pursuant to proposition 47, because there was insufficient evidence that the value of the vehicle he took was over $950. we agree that, under page, no longer valid absent evidence that the value of the vehicle in question was over $950. the appropriate remedy, however, is reversal of the conviction and a remand to allow the people the option to accept a reduction of the conviction to a misdemeanor or to retry the case as a felony. 1 47 reclassified as misdemeanors certain drug- and theft-related offenses that previously were felonies or wobblers. (people v. valencia (2017) 3 cal.5th 347, 355.) driving or taking a vehicle under vehicle code section 10851, subdivision (aas a felony or a misdemeanor. (page, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1181.) 3 background at about 3:00 p.m. on february 27, 2017, freddy rivera mall, where he worked as a security guard. as he greeted his coworkers in the parking lot, eduardo bonilla pointed out that someone was backing the civic out of its parking spot. rivera being driven out of the parking lot; they called the police as they drove. another coworker, steve diaz, followed them in his car. when the civic halted at a stop sign, bonilla stopped behind it. rivera saw hamilton inside the civic. when the three cars later stopped at a stop light, diaz got out of his car and went civic. he reached inside the car and tried to grab the car keys. hamilton drove away. after hamilton turned onto a residential street, he jumped from the civic as it rolled down the street. rivera exited got into the civic. before he could stop the civic, it hit a parked car. surveillance video from a nearby house showed hamilton running down an alley and placing his hands on some trash cans as he jumped over a low wall. police obtained fingerprints from the trash cans; the lifted prints ma at about 4:00 p.m., a police officer observed hamilton walking down the street. hamilton matched the description of the man seen driving, then running away from, the civic. the officer arrested hamilton. 4 discussion the supreme court has between the theft and nontheft forms of the vehicle code section page, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1183.) taking a vehicle with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of possession is a form of theft, and the taking may be accomplished by driving the vehicle away. for this reason, a defendant convicted under [vehicle code] section 10851[, subdivision] (a) of unlawfully taking a vehicle with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of possession has suffered a theft conviction . . . . on the other hand, unlawful driving of a vehicle is not a form of theft when the driving occurs or continues after the theft is complete. . . . therefore, a conviction under [vehicle code] section 10851[, subdivision] (a) for posttheft driving is not a theft conviction . . . ibid., quoting people v. garza (2005) 35 cal.4th 866, 871.) the court held y its terms, proposition 47s new petty theft provision, [penal code] section 490.2, covers the theft form of the vehicle code section 10851 offense. . . . [penal code] section 490.2, subdivision (a), mandates misdemeanor punishment for a defendant who obtain[ed] any property by theft where the property is worth no more than $950. an automobile is personal property. proposition 47, an offender who obtains a car valued at less than $950 by theft must be charged with petty theft and may not be (page, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1183.) under page, if hamiltonfor driving or taking a vehicle under vehicle code section 10851 was based on his 5 taking a vehicle with the intent to permanently deprive the and the value of the civic was less than $950, the crime was petty theft, punishable as a misdemeanor. (page, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1184.) however, because page had not yet been decided at the time of trial, no evidence was presented as to the value of the civic, and the jury did not make a finding as to whether hamilton took a vehicle valued at less than $950 with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of possession.2 appeal concerns the appropriate remedy: reducing the charge to a misdemeanor, or vacating the felony conviction but permitting e the claim is one of insufficiency, not instructional error, the felony should be automatica the people claim the evidence; rather, in this pre-page jury trial, the jury instructions allowed the jury to convict [hamilton] of a felony violation of [vehicle code] section 10851 based on either taking a 2 the jury was instructed pursuant to calcrim former unlawfully taking or driving a vehicle in violation of vehicle code section 10851(a). [] to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant took or and [] 2. when the defendant did so, he intended to deprive the owner of possession or ownership of the vehicle for any period of time. . . 6 any prequired because the evidence showed beyond a reasonable doubt that [hamilton] unlawfully drove the honda civic which did not require proof of its value, and the jury necessarily had to find [hamiltoninasmuch as the jury must have relied on a legally valid theory to convict hamilton of a felony, the people claim, his conviction must be upheld. in the alternative, they argue, if the record is unclear whether the jury convicted hamilton on a legally valid theory, the remedy is to remand the case for the prosecutor to decide whether to accept a reduction to a misdemeanor or to retry hamilton on the felony charge. in support of their argument, the people rely on people v. gutierrez (2018) 20 cal.app.5th 847, decided by division seven of this court. in gutierrez, as here, the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim former no. 1820. (gutierrez, supra, at p. 851.) this instruction allowed the jury to convict [the defendant] of a felony violation of [vehicle code] section 10851 for stealing the [vehicle], even though no value was proveda legally incorrect theoryor for a nontheft taking or driving offensea legally correct one. en a trial court instructs a jury on two theories of guilt, one of which was legally correct and one legally incorrect, reversal is required unless there is a basis in (people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, 167 . . . .gutierrez, supra, at p. 857, citation omitted.) the record did not show whether the defendant was convicted under a legally valid nontheft theory or a legally invalid theory of vehicle theft of a vehicle valued under $950, so the court reverse[d] the felony conviction for unlawful driving or taking a vehicle and 7 remand[ed] the matter to allow the people either to accept a reduction of the conviction to a misdemeanor or to retry the offense as a felony with appropria(ibid.) hamilton relies on in re d.n. (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 898 in support of his claim that a reduction to a misdemeanor is mandated. the court in gutierrez recognize[d] that in in re d.n. . . . the fifth district employed a different analysis and reached a different conclusion on direct appeal from a juvenile adjudication for a felony theft violation of [vehicle code] section 10851 after the effective date of proposition 47 when no evidence of the vehicles value had been introduced at the jurisdiction hearing. considering the case to present an issue of sufficiency of the evidence, the d.n. court held permitting the people to introduce evidence of value at a second wardship jurisdiction hearing would violate principles of double jeopardy. thus, the juvenile adjudication was reduced to a misdemeanor. (in re d.n., at p. people v. gutierrez, supra, 20 cal.app.5th at pp. 857-858.) gutierrez noted that the d.n. court acknowledged there had been conflicting published opinions from the courts of appeal at the time of d.n.s contested jurisdiction hearing. it nonetheless concluded, the people were . . . on notice as of november 5, 2014, [the effective date of proposition 47,] that vehicle theft under vehicle code section 10851 was to be a misdemeanor unless the value of the stolen vehicle exceeded $950. . . . [] the people should have been well aware the value of the stolen vehicle was relevant on whether the offense was a felony. the people chose instead to gamble, and lost their bet, that the supreme court would find vehicle code section 10851 outside the ambit of proposition 47 and penal code section 8 490.2. people v. gutierrez, supra, 20 cal.app.5th at p. 858, quoting in re d.n., supra, 19 cal.app.5th at p. 903.) gutierrez disagregiven the conflicting authority on the issue and the prevailing decisions in the courts of appeal at the time of trial, we decline to fault either the trial court or the prosecutor for failing to correctly anticipate the outcome of cases pending before the supreme court. this is not an instance where either the court or the prosecutor misinterpreted or failed to follow established law. following the guidance of chiu, the appropriate remedy for the error here is to allow a retrial on the felony charge if the people can in good faith bring such a case.people v. gutierrez, supra, 20 cal.app.5th at p. 858, fns. omitted.) in our view, gutierrez provides the better-reasoned approach. the law was unsettled at the time of trial; the prosecutor could not know that the supreme court would hold that proposition 47 would apply to vehicle code section 10851, a however, we cannot agree with the people that the record here shows that the jury necessarily convicted hamilton on the consent. consequently, the appropriate remedy is reverse the felony conviction for unlawful driving or taking a vehicle and remand the matter to allow the people either to accept a reduction of the conviction to a misdemeanor or to retry the people v. gutierrez, supra, 20 cal.app.5th at p. 857.) 9 disposition the judgment of conviction is reversed and the matter remanded for the people to either accept a reduction of the conviction to a misdemeanor, with the court to resentence hamilton in accordance with that election, or retry hamilton for a felony violation of vehicle code section 10851. not to be published johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. weingart, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 