 filed 9/18/18 p. v. harper ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. maurice lateich harper, defendant and appellant. b288133 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma071582) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frank m. tavelman, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, kristen j. inberg, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 maurice lateich harper (defendant), an adult, gave a sexually-explicit letter to a 12-year-old girl, leah b. (leah). among other things, the letter likeand promised is] 18, [leah will] be making lots of challenges his conviction for pandering by procuring a minor under age 16; his claim is that the letter did not expressly encourage leah to engage in prostitution as opposed to modeling, dancing, or some other non-prostitution activity. we consider whether, under the deferential substantial evidence standard of review, any rational jury could find proven the charged pandering by procuring offense. i. background defendant was charged with contact with a minor for a sexual offense in violation of penal code section 288.3, subdivision (a)1 and pandering by procuring a minor under the age of 16 in violation of section 266i, subdivision (b)(2). during a three-day trial, a jury heard testimony from leah, her mother, and defendant, as well as two women employed by a mental health services provider to whom defendant had previously sent unwanted text messages, myshay white (white) and bethany zeller (zeller). leah testified she was 12 years old in july 2017. she had been living at a community shelter in lancaster with her mother 1 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 3 and brothers for approximately two months. defendant had been living at the same shelter for approximately one month. leah did not know defendant, but she had seen him around the shelter. she also noticed him staring at her once on a bus. when her mother stepped away to get water. leah testified defendant from the inside. she opened the door. defendant entered, crouched down, and gave her a letter. as he did so, defendant ip it up and quickly.2 leah gave the letter to her mother without opening it. , which stated[,] i been checkin you out since i been here. i dig you a lot[.] i wanna take you under my wing to lead you to success. you most certainly have a nice ass but i know of a method that can make that ass huge in which most guys like. i know i like women with big asses[.] stick by me[.] [.] [r]emember keep this between us[,] me and you. by [the] time you[re] eighteen you[] be makin lots of money[.] do me a favor on the real leah[.] do not wear any panties[.] please do that for daddy[.] gonna show you all there is about life to be independent[.] you[re] my girl[.] i chose you for a reason[.] and yes i have a very big dick[.] i will teach you about sex in the comfort of our own home[.] write me back[.] tell me how you[re] 2 during his testimony at trial, defendant denied writing the letter and giving it to leah. 4 white and zeller testified about unwanted text messages of a sexual nature they received from defendantbefore he gave the aforementioned letter to leah. some of these text messages instance, defendant asked white if she could help defendant with his journey to success. a little over a month later, defendant texted, u doin myshay? dont be shy girl i wit the business if you know what i hen zeller told defendant she would only discuss work-related matters with him, he texted her: -related matters. im very ambitious and would like to let you in on some of my secrets but it has to be face to face nobody has to know i wont tell if you dont. dont forget i am a very large member!3 the jury convicted defendant on both charges filed against him. defendant admitted a prior strike conviction. the trial court sentenced him to sixteen years in prison on the pandering count, i.e., eight years doubled pursuant to sections 667, subdivisions (b)-(i) and 1170.12, subdivisions (a)-(e). pursuant to section 654, the court stayed the four-year sentence it imposed for the contact with a minor charge. ii. discussion defendant contends there is insufficient evidence to sustain his pandering conviction because the letter did not encourage leah to engage in prostitution. he suggests the letter can be read to encourage through modeling, dancing, and/or pornography. a reasonable jury, 3 defendant testified he sent these messages because he was interested in dating white and zeller. 5 implausible. he urged leah to keep the letter a secret (suggesting awareness of its illegality), and his defense at trial was not that the letter had some other relatively innocuous meaning but rather that he did not write the letter or give it to leah at all. count must stand. a. legal standards conviction is challenged on appeal, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value from which a trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] our review must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] . . . . [t]he relevant inquiry on appeal is whether, in any reasonable trier of fact could have (people v. zaragoza (2016) 1 cal.5th 21, 44.) threats, violence, or by any device or scheme, causes, induces, persuades, or encourages another pers( 266i, subd. (a)(2).)4 pandering is a specific intent crime, and 4 if, as here, the person pandered to is under 16 years of age, the offense is punishable by three, six, or eight years as opposed to three, four, or six years. ( 266i, subd. (b)(2).) 6 equires that a defendant intend to persuade or otherwise influence the . . . (people v. zambia rostitution occurs when the person has the specific intent to engage in either sexual intercourse or lewd acts in exchange for money or other consideration for the purpose of sexual arousal or gratification and takes some step in furtherance of that act.people v. dell (1991) 232 cal.app.3d 248, 264.) california courts have clarified prostitute for otherspeople v. dixon (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1154, 1158-1160, italics added.) b. substantial evidence supports the challenged conviction the issue before us is whether a reasonable trier of fact could conclude, beyond a reasonable doubt, that an adult man who refers who offers to take a 12-year-all in secretintends to persuade her to become a prostitute. defendant contends he some other fication and sexual conduct. none of the alternatives to prostitution hypothesized on appeal by defendant verdict. there is no evidencetestify at trialthat defendant had anything to offer (apart from ) to launch a career in adult entertainment, much less a career in modeling or dancing for which leah would not have to be 18. nor is there evidence 7 defendant wanted leah to start working when she turned 18more than five years in the futureas opposed to starting when she turned 18. even [his] handwriting. there being no actual evidence supporting the theories defendant now advances, there is no sound inference that insistence on secrecy and his meant he was intent on procuring leah to work as a prostitute to 5 defendant suggests, however, happened in this case is that the prosecution sub silencio advanced a view that a black man who suggestively solicits a minor and references sex in that solicitation must either be or he and in the lette this argument is a bridge too farmuch too far. leah was 12 years old. it is eminently reasonable to infer, regardless of racea young girl he is not related to and with whom he has never previously had a conversation is not referring to himself as a ll the more so when we consider the context of the 5 in making this inference, the jury properly could have tatement in the text message sent to white that he was the business if you know what i 8 no underwearnot to mention the statements about (which obviously refer to men other than defendant himself). on the evidence presented at trial, a reasonable trier of fact could conclude, beyond a reasonable doubt, defendant encouraged leah to become a prostitute. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, acting p. j. we concur: moor, j. kim, j. 