filed 5/16/19 p. v. gonzalez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel gonzalez, jr., defendant and appellant. b288310 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na102482) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, james d. otto, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. derek k. kowata, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant daniel gonzalez, jr. of first degree murder, three counts of assault likely to cause great bodily injury, and possession of a firearm by a felon. jurors testified as part of a plea agreement; and three eyewitnesses identified defendant as the shooter. during closing argument, defense counsel acknowledged that defendant committed the assaults. counsel argued that with respect to the murder, defendant acted in defense of his fellow gang members. ts showed that he was unaware of whether the homicide victim was armed; it was undisputed that defendant shot the victim in the back. throughout trial, witnesses were afraid to testify in this as beaten by fellow inmates on his way to court for his testimony implicating defendant. the trial court permitted the prosecutor of mind. on appeal, defendant challenges as unduly prejudicial fear of testifying. the trial court admitted the evidence as probative of the state of mind of a.j. we conclude there was no error because the l court instructed jurors it could consider the evidence for the limited defendant correctly argues that the case must be remanded for the trial court to determine whether to exercise its newly 3 granted discretion to strike a penal code1 section 667, subdivision (a) enhancement. we affirm and remand. factual background we summarize only the factual background relevant to this appeal. defendant is a member of the east side longo (esl) gang. hector bejar and jeffrey carrasco also are esl members.2 t.c. is a member of the north side longo gang and an affiliate of the esl gang. north side longo and esl were friendly gangs. crips were rivals to esl.3 on august 23, 2015, around 10:00 p.m., defendant, bejar, carrasco, and t.c. entered a liquor store in the city of long beach. the liquor store was located in an area claimed by esl gang members. defendant assaulted three victims. during the assaults, defendant raised his shirt to show his esl tattoo. one assault victim used pepper spray against defendant and his confederates. after the victim used pepper spray, defendant ran to a car to retrieve a gun. defendant returned to the liquor store with the gun. meanwhile, andre borero, a.j., and their two friends were together in a car and parked in the lot next to the liquor store. borero exited the vehicle and pulled up his pants. according to 1 undesignated statutory citations are to the penal code. 2 bejar is sometimes spelled behar in the record. 3 the people charged bejar, carrasco, and t.c. together with defendant. defendant was tried separately. 4 t.c., borero identified himself as a linden block crips member, but no one else heard that identification. borero may have associated with a crips gang. defendant shot borero in the back multiple times. defendant or one of his confederates stated the esl gang name. as they fled the scene, defendant and his confederates celebrated, oo, this is our hood a.j. testified that she did not see borero engage in any violence and that borero did not have a weapon. two additional eyewitness testified that borero did not have a weapon. officer thomas erdelji observed borero lying on the ground. erdelji did not observe borero in possession of a weapon at that time. cocaine and marijuana metabolite in his blood. in a recorded interview played for jurors, defendant told a him, and like hit him in the bacdefendant stated, tripping, so i said: bam bam bam! who knows? he could have had a burner. he could have had a knife. he could have stabbed one of my homies. who kno the parties stipulated that defendant had been convicted of a prior felony. procedural background the proceedings from the first trial are not included in the record on appeal. this appeal is 5 intimidated witnesses and their family members in the courthouse. the record in the second trial suggests that prosecution witnesses in the hallway outside the courtroom t.c. pled guilty and testified against defendant as part of his plea deal. on the way to the courthouse for his second day of testimony, gang members beat up t.c. and injured his forehead bleed the person seated next to t.c. on the bus told an officer assailants beat t.c., t.c. testified that defendant said he shot boret.c. further testified that he was scared because he did not know what borero would do; he did not know where borero t.c. did not know if his confederates were scared. a.b., another eyewitness repeatedly testified that she could good cause to believe a.b. lacked credibility in testifying that she did not remember. videos from four cameras were played for jurors.4 three eyewitnesses, including a.j., identified defendant as the shooter. 4 these videos are not in the appellate record. 6 no witness testified for the defense. defense counsel argued defendant acted in defense of his three confederates when he shot borero. counsel did not dispute that defendant committed three assaults prior to shooting borero. jurors convicted defendant of first degree murder and found true gun enhancements pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), (d), and (e)(1). jurors convicted defendant of three counts of assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. the victims were doe 1, doe 2, and doe 3. jurors convicted defendant of possession of a firearm by a felon. with respect to all counts, jurors found true a gang enhancement within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). the the allegations to fall within section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(a) (instead of subdivision (b)(1)(c)). in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court considered whether defendant had suffered a prior strike conviction that also qualified as a prior serious or violent felony and a prior prison conviction. defendant admitted that he suffered a prior conviction for violating section 245, subdivision (c)(1) (assault with a deadly weapon or by means likely to produce great bodily injury upon a peace officer or firefighter). the trial court sentenced defendant to 75 years to life for the murder. the court added five years for the section 667, representation that the court lacked discretion to strike the enhancement. the trial court sentenced defendant to a consecutive 18-year determinate term for the three assault convictions. defendant timely appealed. 7 discussion 1. defendant demonstrates no evidentiary error defendant argues that the trial court should have applied evidence code section 352 (section 352) to exclude evidence that a.j. heard of an incident in which attempted to photograph witnesses as they waited to testify. defendant recognizes that evidence a witness is afraid to testify e to question her we conclude the trial court did not err in admitting the testimony. a. additional background gang expert, detective chris zamora, testified that gang members often will retaliate against people who testify against members of their gang. gang members may retaliate even if the witness is not a gang member. witnesses frequently are afraid to testify in a gang case and will pretend to forget or will alter their testimony. a.j. was one of the eyewitnesses who identified defendant as the shooter. she was 16 years old at the time of the incident. officer robert gonzales testified that prior to trial, a.j. was concerned about who would be present during the court proceedings. according to gonzales, a.j. appeared nervous and did not want to testify. gonzales testified that it is common for witnesses in gang cases to be nervous. officer gonzales testified that a.j. and another witness were concerned that someone would photograph or record them while testifying. when the prosecutor asked a.j. about her identification of it 8 had not told the officers she was unsure. a.j. testified that she did not see the assailant shoot borero but later admitted that she saw the shooting. when the prosecutor asked a.j. if she was when she was served with a subpoena, she did not inquire who would be in the courtroom. [n] incident ered affirmatively. outside the presence of jurors, the prosecutor indicated that he intfrom her mother that there were people connected to the defendant trying to take pictures of the witnesses.prosecutor argued that the evidence was relevant to a.of mind. the court permitted the citing section 352. counsel did not identify any specific prejudice. . heard this from the mother of another eyewitness. a.j. testified that she was not concerned that someone may have been taking pictures because she did not if the court instructed jurors: and gentleman this testimony mind, and as she sits here and testifies, it does not go to the truth have been taking pictures. counsel identified no prejudice to defendant; he argued only that he was unaware of the 9 photographing witnesses. subsequently, defense counsel cross-examined a.j. and questioned a.j.medication, your b. defendant demonstrates no error in admitting state of mind evidence that a witness is afraid to testify and evidence that a witness fears retaliation is relevant to credibility. (people v. williams it is not necessary to show threats against the witness were made by the defens fear of retaliation is directly linked to the defendant for the evidence to be admissible.people v. sanchez (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 1435, 1450.) defendant too recognizes that evidence of witness we conclude the trial court acted well within its discretion in finding the probative value of the evidence of questions prejudice in admitting the evidence. (people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 437 [section 352 reviewed for abuse of discretion].) section 352 permits the trial court to exclude evidence if its probative value is outweighed by a substantial danger of undue prejudice. (people v. williams, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 270.) as contemplated by [evidence code] section 352 is not so sweeping as to include any evidence the opponent finds inconvenient. evidence is not prejudicial, as that term is used in a section 352 context, merely becs position or 10 shores up that of the proponent. the ability to do so is what makes evidence relevant. the code speaks in terms of undue prejudice. unless the dangers of undue prejudice, confusion, or time consumption substantially outweigh the probative value of relevant evidence, a section 352 objection should fail. (people v. doolin, at pp. 438439.) defendant argues that the evidence was irrelevant because [ied] truthfully and to the best of her recollection, and there was nothing about her testimony that gave cause to questidefendant argues that the evidence consumption of time, and confusion it would create . . . however, he identifies no prejudice for purposes of balancing the probative value and the prejudicial nature of the evidence. nor does he explain how the brief questioning would have led to undue consumption of time or confusion. contrary to d just before the questioning, a.j. testified that she did not see the person who shot the gun. later . . . who credibility. the evidence of witness intimidation provided an explanation for why she would vacillate in her statements about the shooter. it also provided an explanation for her seemingly inconsistent statements regarding identifying defendant in the of her identification of defendant in the photographic lineup. she, however, acknowledged she did not tell officers administering the lineup that she was unsure. the fact that a.j. later testified that she was not nervous and did not know 11 inconsistent statements before and during trial.5 section 352 required the trial court to balance the probative value and the prejudicial nature of the evidence. we any probative value. defendant identifies no prejudice against which to balance the probative value of the evidence. [e]vidence should be excluded as unduly prejudicial when it is of such nature as to inflame the emotions of the jury, motivating them to use the information, not to logically evaluate the point upon which it is relevant, but to reward or punish one side because of the jurors emotional reaction. in such a circumstance, the evidence is unduly prejudicial because of the substantial likelihood the jury will use it for an illegitimate purpose. (people v. doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 439.) under this standard, the trial court acted well within its discretion in was not of such a nature as to inflame the emotions of the jury. in short, defendant does not show the court abused its discretion in admitting the evidence. because defendant demonstrates no evidentiary error, we need not consider his argument that the erroneously admitted evidence prejudiced him. 5 testimony to a.j.s state of mind. the trial court instructed the the trial, certain evidence was admitted for a limited purpose. you may consider that evidence only for that purpose a 12 2. the case must be remanded for the trial court to exercise its newly obtained sentencing discretion under prior law, a trial court did not have the authority strike any prior conviction of a serious felony for purposes of (former  1385, subd. (b).) senate bill no. 1393, adopted september 30, 2018, amended sections 667 and 1385 to omit this restriction, thus granting trial courts discretion to strike the prior conviction as it relates to the five-year sentence enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). (see sen. bill no. 1393 (20172018 reg. sess.); people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 973.) the parties agree that senate bill no. 1393 applies retroactively to this case and that remand is necessary for the trial court to exercise its discretion and decide whether to strike the serious felony enhancement. indication that the trial court would not have reduced the sentence even if at the time of sentencing it had the discretion to do so. [citation.] without such a clear indication of a trial is unaware people v. almanza (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 1104, 1110.) as both parties state, remand is necessary for the trial court to exercise its newly-obtained discretion. (people v. garcia, supra, 28 cal.app.5th at p. 973.) on this record, we cannot conclude remand would be futile. 13 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. upon remand, the trial court shall determine whether to strike the section 667, subdivision (a) enhancement. if the court strikes the enhancement, the court shall reduce the sentence accordingly, amend the abstract of judgment, and forward the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. weingart, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 