filed 4/15/19 p. v. huff ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. akiria clarice huff, defendant and appellant. b288253 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma072151) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frank m. tavelman, judge. affirmed in part, remanded with directions. tyrone a. sandoval, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, and nancy lii ladner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 introduction an information filed october 4, 2017 charged appellant akiria clarice huff with two counts of felony criminal threats (pen, code,  422, subd. (a))1 and alleged that appellant personally used a firearm in the commission of each offense ( 12022.5, subd. (a)). it further alleged that appellant had been convicted of one prior serious and/or violent felony ( 667, subd. (d)) and one prior serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). a jury found appellant guilty of both counts of felony criminal threats, but found the firearm allegations not true. appellant admitted the prior strike and the prior serious felony convictions. the court sentenced appellant to a total term of nine years, including five years for the prior serious felony, but suspended execution of the sentence and placed appellant on five years probation. appellant timely appealed, alleging the trial court committed reversible error by denying her the opportunity to impeach the credibility of two key prosecution witnesses with evidence that one of the witnesses was on probation. appellant also contends that remand is required for the trial court to exercise its newly-granted discretion under senate bill no. 1393 (stats. 2018, ch. 1013,  1-2) (sb 1393) to strike the prior serious felony enhancement. we agree remand felony enhancement should be stricken. in all other respects, we affirm. 1 all further unspecified references are to the penal code. any person who willfully threatens to commit a crime which will result in death or great bodily injury to another person, with the specific intent that the statement, made verbally, in writing, or by means of an electronic communication device, is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually carrying it out, which, on its face and under the circumstances in which it is made, is so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat, and thereby causes that person reasonably to be in safety, shall be punished by imprisonment . . . 3 factual and procedural background a. prosecution evidence the guyton family consists of mother diane, son andrew, teenage daughter aleah and younger daughter kanesha. diane and her daughters lived in a house next to appellant akiria huff. 1. andrew guyton andrew was 28 years old at the time of trial. his family had a tense relationship with appellant and a history of conflict. the guytons had purchased a security camera for their protection. according to his testimony at trial, house on september 6, 2017 when he observed appellant on her front lawn yelling profanities at his aleah and diane had just arrived home and were getting out of the car. andrew went outside and yelled at appellant, calling andrew observed appellant go inside her house and return with a small black handgun. appellant threatened to kill diane and her family. andrew ushered aleah and diane inside the house and called 911. both andrew and diane had heard that appellant was involved in a prior shooting. once inside the house, andrew turned on the camera to start recording. or, where appellant was standing when holding the gun. because the camera had been off, there was no video footage of the incident. when the police arrived, andrew was initially placed in handcuffs, and then released. a recording of was played for the jury. during the he also reported that appellant had a small black gun and had threatened to shoot them. at some point, appellant during cross-examination, andrew explained that he had called 911 two other times on the day of the incident. first, in the early morning, he had called 911 to report that a suspicious man was standing across the street, 4 erheard the 2 for sending appellant to jail, and andrew had again called 911.3 andrew acknowledged that he had a hard time recalling the exact timing and sequence of events. andrew testified he did not instigate the verbal altercation with appellant, did not threaten appellant and was not verbally aggressive with her. he denied that appellant had threatened to call the police on him during the incident, or that the reason he called the police that day was to avoid his own arrest. in october 2017, about a month before trial, andrew called the police family members had threatened andrew with a baseball bat and knife in retaliation for having sent appellant to jail. 2. diane guyton diane of the september 6 altercation with appellant. she observed appellant holding a gun and threatening to kill diane and her family. diane did not observe andrew 2 video footage later played for the jury from august 2017 showed roperty to inspect the camera system. andrew identified the man on the video as the one who had at trial, andrew identified weily 3 video footage later played for the jury from the night of september 6 into her car, with andrew rushing to her side to protect her. andrew er cousin, ebone allen, and evelyn franklin as three of the individuals in that encounter. the video showed as andrew fuck out of here, because we got [appellant] arrested . . . pick up diane because he thought the women might hit her. 5 threatening appellant, nor did she at any point hear appellant say she would call the police. while there was no video footage of the september 6 incident, video clips from less than three weeks earlier on august 17, 2017 showed appellant telling ot somebody for you, little n---- property to inspect their cameras. diane estimated she had 25 to 30 previous verbal altercations with appellant before the september 6 incident. diane recalled an incident between neighbor irene wright and andrew members had threatened andrew with a baseball bat, and the police were called to the scene. 3. aleah guyton aleah was 15 years old at the time of trial. on september 6, she witnessed appellant calling the family derogatory names and challenging andrew to fight, then saw appellant go into her house and emerge with something small and black in her hand. aleah could not see if the object was a gun. aleah did not hear appellant expressly threaten to kill anyone, but b. defense evidence the defense presented no witnesses to the september 6 incident that formed the basis for the charges. ebone allen, appemaking threats against andrew or diane on the night of september 6, when shown video footage of three women, including herself, approaching diane, allen explained that diane had approached them first. allen could not recall what the women said to diane that night. also acknowledged approaching andrew and diane, but denied making threats against them. -in-law, testified regarding the october incident. wright had told jefferson that the neighbors were harassing her, and jefferson visited wright with her four children and two 6 cousins that day. jefferson denied making threats against the guytons, and testified that she told them only to stop harassing her mother-in-law. jefferson was pulled over by the police as she was driving away, but had no bats, guns or knives, and she was not arrested or searched. weily only -court identification, he was not the person in the video inspecting the security cameras. c. probationary status -examination, defense counsel asked: andrew answered: on probation. the prosecution objected, and a sidebar discussion ensued. defense was relevant to support the defense theory that andrew called police preemptively to avoid arrest for threatening appellant first. alleged fear of arrest, counsel asserted, was borne out by the fact that he was initially placed in handcuffs when police arrived, and would have provided him a motive to lie, calling his credibility into question. applying evidence code section 352, the court ruled it would exclude the evidence for impeachment, unless the defense could substantiate its theory that appellant had threatened to call the police first; otherwise, the defense theory was mere ,probationary aware her son was on probation; no at the conclusion of the defense case, defense counsel renewed his ary status, either through cross-examination or admission of a certified minute order, pursuant to appellant-examination. and andrew had answered a question falsely which the defense could 7 contradict for impeachment. as for relevance, defense counsel argued that the court exercised its discretion under evidence code section 352 and ary that relevant or important for purposes of establishing this particular [s] the court observed that if the defense theory were true, andrew would still expose himself to a probation violation by lying during the 911 call. d. closing arguments during closing arguments, defense counsel sought to discredit the prosecution witnesses. in particular, the defense highlighted inconsistencies accusations against others, all of them denied making any threats, and no arrests were made. also, no video of the actual incident existed, though andrew had at one point testified that appellant was captured on camera during the altercation. the prosecution acknowledged the inconsistencies in crime, his testimony was consistent with his earlier statements to police and testimony. the prosecution also argued that aleahsufficient to support the criminal threat charges. e. verdict and sentencing the jury found appellant guilty of the criminal threat charges, but found the firearm allegations not true. the court dismissed the strike and reduced one conviction to a misdemeanor. the court sentenced appellant to a total term of nine years, consisting of the high term of three years for the felony, five years for the prior serious felony, and 364 days for the misdemeanor. the court suspended execution of the sentence and placed appellant on five years probation, conditioned on appellant serving 729 days in county jail. 8 discussion i. the court did not abuse its discretion excluding evidence of ary status. a. governing principles appellant relies primarily on davis v. alaska (1974) 415 u.s. 308 (davis) to support her argument that the trial court committed error by ary status for impeachment of in davis, the defendant was charged with larceny and burglary. the crucial prosecution witness who identified the defendant from a photospread and at trial was on probation for a juvenile adjudication of burglary. on cross-examination, the defense sought to elicit being a suspect himself or felt pressured by the police to identify a suspect under fear of possible probation revocation. (id. at pp. 310-311.) the trial court, defense from inquiring as to his probationary status. (id. at p. 318.) during his testimony, the witness denied he had ever been questioned by any law enforcement officers. (id. at p. 313.) the united states supreme court held that the states interest in protecting the anonymity of juvenile offenders was outweighed by a defendants sixth amendment right to cross-examine his accusers. (davis, supra, 415 u.s. at p. 319.) subject to the trial courts broad discretion to preclude repetitive and unduly harassing questioning, the supreme court concluded the defendant had a right to cross-examine the prosecution witness about his probationary to undue pressure from the police, or to shift suspicion away from himself. (davis, supra, at p. 317.) davis cial link in the proof . . . id. at p. 317.) 9 in people v. harris (1989) 47 cal.3d 1047, the california supreme court held that davis under evidence code section 352. in the absence of evidence that a witness had been threatened with probation revocation or offered benefits related to prdavis opinion suggests that the court intended to abrogate the power of trial courts to restrict cross-examination, even that by defendants, under well-established principles such as those reflected in evidence code section 352 . . . .id. at pp. 1090-1091, disapproved on another ground in people v. wheeler (1992) 4 cal.4th 284, 299, fn. 10 judges retain wide latitude insofar as the confrontation clause is concerned to impose reasonable limits on such cross-examination based on concerns about, among other things, harassment, prejudice, confusion of the issues, people v. quartermain (1997) 16 cal.4th 600, 623 ng the confrontation clause, a trial court may restrict cross-examination of an adverse witness on the grounds stated in evidence code discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of of impeaching evidence on collateral matters which has only slight probative value on the issue of veracity does not infringe on the defendantpeople v. greenberger (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 298, 350.) [a] matter is has no logical bearing on any material, disputed issue. [citation.] a fact may (people v. contreras (2013) 58 cal.4th 123, 152; see people v. dement (2011) 53 cal.4th 1, 50-52 [preventing impeachment of inmate who witnessed prison murder with collateral evidence that he lied in court about a murder he was convicted of many years ago], abrogated on other grounds by people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192; people v. harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, 1291 [upholding denial of impeachment of prosecution witness with evidence of his 10 collateral and not sufficiently probative].) to be relevant, evidence must (evid. code,  210.) thus, unless appellant can show that the excluded cross-examination would ificantly different impression of [the witness's] confrontation clause. (delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 680.) b. no abuse of discretion davis did not restrict the ary status. davis is distinguishable in several important ways. unlike the witness in davis, andrew was not the key eyewitness to a crime in which identity was crucial. moreover, corroborated by diane and aleah, and video footage from the security cameras captured appellant making similar threats in the past. as the trial court noted, there was no evidence to substantiate the defense theory that andrew called 911 to report the incident before appellant did in order to deflect attention away from his own purportedly criminal conduct. nor was there evidence that the police officers who responded to the scene were aware andrew was on probation or exerted any pressure that might have imperiled his probationary status. all of these circumstances made it less likely, in comparison to davisary status had any relevance to the determination of his credibility. accordingly, the trial court had discretion to exclude evidence of ary status on the basis that it was a collateral matter with substantial risk of undue prejudice. the mere fact that a witness is on probation, standing alone, does not inherently make the probationer vulnerablemake some threshold showing that the proposed subject matter of the impeachment would reveal a possible bias, prejudice or an ulterior motive of the witness. (see foster v. superior court (1980) 107 cal.app.3d 218, 226 the -11 bear on any material, disputed issue on the case. although the defense tried to discredit esented no witness to contradict his account of the september 6 incident involving appellant and no evidence that andrew threatened appellant. probationary status, if anything, would have discouraged him from making a false 911 call so as to avoid any contact with law enforcement. the trial court committed no error when it rejected the defense theory that andrew's probationary status made him susceptible to bias or provided an ulterior motive for him to falsely accuse appellant in a fabricated 911 call. finally, appellant cannot establish that the excluded cross-examination ary (see delaware v. van arsdall, supra, 475 u.s. at p. 680.) the defense had ample opportunity to cross-any bias or motive to lie. the defense was not precluded from attempting to demonstrate that andrew was unworthy of belief; it was merely precluded from doing so with marginally relevant and potentially prejudicial evidence. indeed, both parties acknowledged during closing argument that there were e the fear it instilled in him and his family remained consistent, and ary status and credibility as a witness were not disputed facts that impacted the outcome of the entire action. (see evid. code,  210.) it is unlikely that additional evidence of ary status or dishonesty regarding that status would have any ary live with diane, and regardless of the purported closeness of their ary status was not inherently incredible or evidence of bias. we find no abuse of discretion. 12 c. harmless error even had we found s exercise of discretion, we would deem it harmless under any standard. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 149 [state law evidentiary error reviewed for prejudice under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 standard of reasonable probability of a more favorable result absent the error]; chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [federal constitutional error must be harmless beyond a reasonable doubt].) factors to be considered include: witness testimony in the prosecutions case, whether the testimony was cumulative, the presence or absence of evidence corroborating or contradicting the testimony of the witness on material points, the extent of cross-examination otherwise permitted, and, of course, the overall strength of the prosecutiondelaware v. van arsdall, supra, 475 u.s. at p. 684.) probationary status would have resulted in a more favorable verdict for appellant; for the same reaamendment rights was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. first, andrew, diane and aleah testified to the threats against andrew, and evidence of ary status or his dishonesty regarding it did not affect aleah aleah second, both andrew and diane testified to the threats against diane. and her disclaimed knowledge of his status was neither demonstrably false nor evidence of her own bias. the defense called no percipient witnesses to contradict andrewaleah appellants threats against both andrew and diane, or to support the defense theory that andrew falsely accused appellant. the defense witnesses contradicted only of other confrontations that day not involving appellant. at least one of those incidents was captured on testimony. in light of the cross-examination otherwise permitted, the evidence corroborating the prosecution , 13 and the absence of any evidence contradicting the alleged criminal threats by appellant, any error in excluding the status or his testimony regarding it was harmless. ii. remand is appropriate under sb 1393. under the previous version of section 1385, subdivision (b), a court was required to impose a five-serious felprior conviction of a serious felony for purposes of enhancement of a sentence 0, 2018, the governor signed sb 1393, which became effective january 1, 2019, and amended section 1385, subdivision (b), to allow a court to exercise its discretion whether to strike or dismiss a prior serious felony conviction for sentencing purposes. (people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 971.) the trial court here indicated it had it had the discretion to do so. furthermore, respondent concedes that sb 1393 applies retroactively to 1, 2019. (in re estrada (1965) lessening punishment becomes effective prior to the date the judgment of conviction becomes final then, in our opinion, it, and not the old statute in appropriate to permit the trial court to exercise its discretion to strike the prior serious felony enhancement. disposition the matter is remanded for the trial court to consider whether 14 sb 1393. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. currey, j. 