filed 12/14/18 p. v. garcia ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. raymond javier garcia, defendant and appellant. b288039 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va025982) appeal from judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, debra a. cole, judge. reversed. stephen borgo, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior 2 assistant attorney general, chung l. mar and christopher g. sanchez, deputies attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ defendant raymond javier garcia appeals an order denying his petition to reduce his 1993 felony conviction for receiving stolen property (pen. code,  496)1 to a misdemeanor pursuant to proposition 47 ( 1170.18, subd. (f)). the trial court den petition without prejudice on the basis that he was ineligible for relief because he failed to provide any evidence that the value of the stolen property did not exceed $950, as required to establish eligibility under section 1170.18. garcia contends he made a prima facie case that he is eligible for relief under section 1170.18, subdivision (f). we agree that garcia has met his initial burden of establishing eligibility.2 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 although the parties focus their arguments on whether garcia made a prima facie case by checking the box indicating that the value of the stolen property was less than $950an issue upon which the courts of appeal disagree (see people v. washington (2018) 23 cal.app.5th 948, 955 [checking box indicating value of property is less than $950 is sufficient to make prima facie showing]; people v. perkins (2016) 244 cal.app.4th 129, 140 [checking box indicating 3 discussion under proposition 47, a felony conviction for receiving stolen property may be reduced to a misdemeanor where the value of the stolen property does not exceed $950, and where, as here, the petitioner has no prior convictions for an offense specified in section 667, subdivision (e)(2)(c)(iv) or for an offense requiring registration pursuant to section 290, subdivision (c). ( 496, subd. (a); 1170.18, subds. (f)(i).) lies with the petitioner. (see evid. code,  people v. romanowski (2017) 2 cal.5th 903, 916 (romanowski).) when a person files an application for relief under proposition 47, the court conducts an initial screening. initial screening must be limited to a determination of whether the applicant has presented a prima facie basis for relief under section 1170.18. at this level of review, the court should not consider any factual issues such as the value of any property taken regarding any qualified theft uzens [et al.], sentencing california crimes people v. washington (2018) 23 cal.app.5th 948, 953 (washington)in some cases, the uncontested information in the petition and record value of property is less than $950 is not sufficient to make prima facie showing])we need not decide the issue here as garcia submitted other evidence that was sufficient to make a prima facie case. 4 of conviction may be enough for the petitioner to establish this eligibility. when eligibility is established in this fs felony sentence shall be recalled and the petitioner sentenced to a misdemeanor . . . unless the court, in its discretion, determines that resentencing the petitioner would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to ( 1170.18, subd. (b).) but in other cases, eligibility for resentencing may turn on facts that are not established by either the uncontested petition or the record of conviction. in these cases, an evidentiary hearing may be return, any denial, any affidavits or declarations under penalty of perjury, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken, the court finds there is a reasonable likelihood that the petitioner may be entitled to relief and the s entitlement to relief depends on the resolution of an issue of [citations.] (romanowski, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 916.) procedural history garcia utilized the superior court of los angeles county form, and checked the box indicating that the value of the stolen property was less than $950. although the people express some doubt over whether the petition included attachments, the petition in the appellate record report for the incident as an attachment, and we consider it as such. the crime report indicates that on october 3, 1993, 5 huntington park high school reported a burglary of shop tools. officers observed garcia exiting the high school with a large laundry bag and spilling tools on the sidewalk. when they questioned him, garcia stated that he purchased the tools at a swap meet. as garcia began placing the spilled tools back in the laundry bag, one of the officers noticed a ton park high in a subsequent police interview, garcia stated that he paid $50 for the tools. he admitted that he believed the tools were stolen at the time of purchase the record does not contain a written opposition to the petition, nor is it alleged that the prosecution filed an opposition with the trial court. at the hearing, the prosecutor requested that the trial court deny the petition without prejudice, and the following discussion took place: -- in the police report, and it fferent property that was taken. it was taken from a school. but he pled to receiving as opposed to a burglary. so we just look at the value. -- probation report just t is denied without 6 analysis s ruling that garcia presented no evidence of the value of the stolen property in connection with his proposition 47 petition is incorrect. at the eligibility stage, the court does not consider the actual value of the property taken, it assesses only whether the petitioner has presented evidence demonstrating that it is reasonably likely the petitioner is eligible for relief. (see washington, supra, 23 cal.app.5th at p. 953.) garcia has done so. his petition included the stating that he was stopped carrying a bag of shop tools for which he paid $50, and listed the recovered items. the amount that garcia claimed to have paid for the tools is evidence of their value. (romanowski, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. aware of no jurisdiction that bars courts from looking at evidence of illegal market value. we see no reason to establish that restriction in california.) the nature of the individual tools stolen detailed in the police report also indicates that their value is reasonably likely to be less than $950. under these circumstances, the record does not support affirming the order on the basis that defendant failed to carry his prima facie burden. the petition in this case is the type described in romanowski . . turn[s] on facts that are not established by either the uncontested 7 evidentiary hearing if the petition is opposed. (romanowski, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 916.) accordingly, we reverse and remand for further proceedings. (ibid.) disposition the order denying s petition for reclassification of his felony conviction to a misdemeanor under section 1170.18 is reversed. if the district attorney contests s initial showing of eligibility, the trial court is directed to conduct an evidentiary hearing to determine whether garcia has met his ultimate burden. moor, j. we concur: baker, acting p.j. seigle, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 