 filed 1/16/19 p. v. lenaghan ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kevin g. lenaghan, defendant and appellant. b288397 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa094519) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathryn a. solorzano, judge. reversed in part, affirmed in part, and remanded with directions. law offices of carl k. osborne, carl k. osborne for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and lindsay boyd, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction defendant and appellant kevin lenaghan pleaded no contest to driving under the influence of an alcoholic beverage (dui) within 10 years of three other dui offenses (veh. code,  23152, subd. (a);1 23550) (count 1) and driving with a .08 percent blood alcohol content within 10 years of three other dui offenses ( 23152, subd. (b); 23550) (count 2). as to count 2, defendant admitted having a blood alcohol concentration that was 0.15 percent or more, by weight. ( 23578.) as to both counts, the trial court sentenced defendant to two years in county jail, suspended execution of sentence, and placed defendant on formal probation for 36 months on various terms and conditions, including the condition he serve 270 days in county jail. the trial court awarded defendant two days of custody credit. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred in its custody credit award by not including the 195 days he spent, pre-plea, in a residential rehabilitation facility at the order of the remand for further proceedings as set forth below, and otherwise affirm the judgment. ii. background on november 11, 2016, defendant was arrested for driving under the influence. he remained in custody until november 12, 2016, when he posted bond. the trial court (judge schwartz) 1 all further statutory references are to the vehicle code unless otherwise noted. 3 alcohol, (2) do not possess alcohol, and (3) do not drive without a voluntarily entered sea change recovery (sea change), an intensive full-time drug and alcohol treatment program. on july 27, 2017, defendant appeared in court to be arraigned. judge solorzano, who was then presiding over bail and discussed any conditions judge schwartz had imposed that were set by the court at the time of the arraignment? -in program. no alcohol consumption. not use or possess any alcoholic beverages. do not drive any had a very high ba in this case. and let me look at one other thing before we go over the conditions. [] and what live-in program are you in? -e-a? change, c-h-a-n-g-e? -e-a, like the ocean. -h-a-n-g-e. sea change. your bail in this matter. 4 the trial court then continued the arraignment until august 17, 2017. on december 13, 2017, the matter was set for a pretrial connection with the hearing, defendant filed a brief in which he argued he was entitled to 195 days of custody credit for time that he remain there as a condition of bail. at the hearing, the trial court (judge solorzano) addressed the terms of the sentence it intended to impose and the consequences of a plea. when the trial court advised defendant that he would have to serve a minimum of 180 days in county jail, defense counsel argued that defendant was entitled to credit order. the trial court and defense counsel then had the following discussion: -patient treatment, but maybe i did. [] in-patient treatment, was it something that was initiated before this case ever became before this court? absolutely true. -patient and i said okay, good, or i said stay there, you are ordered to stay there? [] typically i would make a record of that, but i precious time. a perfect condition of his bail. that was what i 5 ebody else having previously stated it needed additional time to ensure it was sentencing defendant correctly, the trial court time of the arraignment. if i made a statement, then i think he will be entitled to those credits at the subsequent february 6, 2018, hearing, the trial order that he remain there as a condition of bail. the trial court stated that it had reviewed the record and there was no indication that judge schwartz ordered defendant to remain at sea change as a condition of bail. it then ruled that defendant was not entitled to 195 days of custody credit for time spent at sea change. after the trial court addressed the terms and consequences of and alternatives to an open plea, defendant entered an open no contest plea to counts 1 and 2 and admitted the special allegation. on counts 1 and 2, the trial court sentenced defendant to two years in county jail, suspended execution of sentence, and placed defendant on formal probation for 36 months on various terms and conditions, including the condition he serve 270 days in county jail. the trial court awarded defendant two days of custody credit. iii. discussion defendant argues he was entitled to 197 days of custody credittwo days for his jail custody following his arrest, and 195 6 days for the time he spent at sea change after the trial court ordered him to remain there as a condition of bail. the attorney general responds that the trial court did not order defendant to remain at sea change as a condition of bail, and, even if it did, custodial for purposes of awarding credit. a. defendant to remain at sea change as a condition of bail entitling a defendant sentenced either to county jail or state prison to credit against the term of imprisonment for days spent in custody before sentencing as well as those served after sentencing as a condition of probationapply to custodial time in a residential treatment facility as well as straight county jail time. (pen. code,  2900.5, subd. (a); people v. johnson [(2002)] 28 cal.4th people v. jeffrey (2004) 33 cal.4th 312, 318.) imposed as a condition of probation or otherwise ordered by a court in imposing or suspending the imposition of any sentence . . (pen. code,  2900.5, subd. (c).) accordingly, if defendant could be entitled to custody credit for that time. at the july 27, 2017, hearing, the trial court, in the course - 7 the attorney general argues the exchange between the trial court and defendant should be interpreted as a recitation of what the trial court believed to be the pre-existing conditions of argument. the trial court asked defendant if judge schwartz imposed court then recited the conditions: (1) do not use alcohol, (2) do not residential treatment program at sea change as one of judge onditions. the attorney general next argues that implicit in the trial court intended at sea change as a condition of his bail. b. was custodial for purposes of a credit award from the words of the statute and from judicial decisions that, for . . . the courts which have considered the question generally focus on such factors as the extent freedom of movement is 8 restricted, regulations governing visitation, rules regarding schedule. [citation.] [] while no hard and fast rule can be derived from the cases, the concept of custody generally connotes a facility rather than a home. it includes some aspect of regulation of behavior. it also includes supervision in a people v. ambrose (1992) 7 cal.app.4th 1917, 1921 (ambrose).) regarded as sufficiently restrictive as to amount to custody constitutes a factual question [citation], even though certain facilities by their very nature involve some restraint on untrammeled liberty [citation]. although it is difficult to conceive of a live-in alcohol treatment program that does not include some modification of behavior and supervision, at least regarding the availability of alcohol, this does not necessarily ambrose, supra, 7 cal.app.4th at p. 1922.) here, the trial court ruled that defendant was not entitled to custody credit for time spent at sea change after july 27, 2017, because defendant was not ordered to remain there as a condition of his bail. in light of that ruling, the trial court did not address or decide the factual issue of whether the relevant time defendant spent at sea change subjected him to within the meaning of penal code section 2900.5. (ambrose, supra, 7 cal.app.4th at pp. 1921-1922.) the attorney general acknowledges that penal code section 2900.5, by its express language, provides for an award of custody credit to a defendant who has been in custody at a rehabilitation facility. but a defendant who has been released on 9 bail is ineligible for custody credit, the attorney general argues, because such a defendant is not in actual custody within the to bail is the order of a competent court or magistrate that the d we section 2900.5, without reference to bail status, awards credit to a defendant who has been in custody in a rehabilitation facility whose liberty was sufficiently restricted. (pen. code,  2900.5; ambrose, supra, 7 cal.app.4th at pp. 1921-1922.) thus, penal code section 1268 does not preclude the awarding of custody credits to a defendant who posts bail. because the trial court did not address or decide the factual while he was at sea change after july 27, 2017, that were sufficient to constitute custody under penal code section 2900.5, we remand the matter to the trial court with directions to conduct an evidentiary hearing on the issue. if it determines award defendant custody credits under penal code section 2900.5 for that period of time that defendant was so restrained. 10 iv. disposition matter is remanded to the trial court with directions that it conduct an evidentiary hearing to determine whether and for sufficiently restricted such that defendant was in custody within the meaning of penal code section 2900.5 and award custody credits as appropriate. the judgment is otherwise affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. kim, j. i concur: jaskol, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. the people v. kevin g. lenaghan b288397 baker, acting p. j., dissenting credits. as i read the recordand as the trial court itself read the record when presented with the relevant transcript before making the ruling challenged on appealthe trial court did not bail to make continued residence at the sea change alcoholism treatment facility compulsory. rather, the court asked defense counsel what conditions of bail had been previously imposed by another judge, and defense counsel made a representation to the court that suggested residential treatment at the sea change facility was one of those conditions.1 that the court later made a meaning of counsmodified the conditions of bail. and even if it did, defendant 1 clientcorrect. [] the court: and are there conditions that were set by the court at the time of the arraignment? [defense yes, your honor. [] [defense counsel]-in 2 representation (one i assume was unintentional and likely triggered by defendant himself) to obtain additional custody creditsparticularly when the trial court repeatedly advised defendant he would not be entitled to such credits before the court accepted his no-contest pleas. baker, acting p. j. 