 filed 5/3/19 p. v. singleton ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. charles e. singleton, defendant and appellant. b288572 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba458508) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. norman j. shapiro, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. carolyn d. phillips, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 charles e. singleton appeals the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of one felony count of assault with a deadly weapon. (pen. code,1  245, subd. (a)(1).) at sentencing the trial court denied a defense request to reduce the conviction from a felony to a misdemeanor under section 17, subdivision (b)(5). the trial court suspended imposition of sentence and placed appellant on felony probation for three years with specified conditions. appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion in refusing to reduce his felony conviction to a misdemeanor. we disagree, and affirm the judgment. appellant further asserts and respondent agrees that the victim restitution and probation revocation fines ( 1202.4, subd. (b), 1202.44) must be stricken from the march 5, 2018 minute order because the trial court did not order any fines, fees, or assessments at the sentencing hearing. appellant also contends that the court security and criminal conviction assessments ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1); gov. code,  70373) must be stricken from the minute order because the trial court did not order these assessments and made no determination of appwe agree and therefore remand the matter to the trial court with directions to correct the sentencing minute order to conform to oral pronouncement of judgment. factual background on june 9, 2017, saro stephanian worked as an attendant for a self-parking garage. around 8:30 p.m., stephanian was in the parking kiosk when appellant approached. appellant said his 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 backpack, which he had left in a far corner of the garage, was missing. he asked stephanian if he had taken the backpack and demanded its return. when stephanian told appellant he had not seen the backpack, appellant became angry and kicked the kiosk. stephanian told appellant he was not the person who s steakhouse across the street. appellant walked to returned to holding a knife at his side pointed toward the ground. appellant again demanded that stephanian return his backpack to him. stephanian retreated into his booth and told appellant he did not have the backpack. appellant then stand, whereupon stephanian locked himself inside the kiosk and called the police. at the valet station, appellant angrily confronted the valet, romeo vargas, and another alvarez, about the backpack. neither had seen it. appellant pulled out a knife and made three or four stabbing motions . vargas raised his hands to protect himself, and the knife cut one of his hands. alvarez picked up a folding chair and tried to swing it at appellant. appellant grabbed alvarez, and the two men fell to the ground. after security guards broke up the fight, police arrived and arrested appellant. discussion i. the trial court did not abuse its discretion a. relevant background at the sentencing hearing, defense counsel requested that the trial court exercise its discretion under section 17, subdivision (b) to reduce felony conviction for assault with a deadly weapon to a misdemeanor. in support of the request, 4 facts of the current offense: the fact that appellant committed the offense on the mistaken belief that his backpack had been stolen and the absence of any serious injury in a confrontation involving two men against appellant. as an alternative to reducing the offense to a misdemeanor, defense counsel requested that the court impose a probationary sentence. the trial court declined to exercise its discretion to reduce the felony to a misdemeanor, but placed appellant on felony formal probation for three years, with the condition that appellant serve two days in county jail. noting that it was taking a chance on appellant, the court stated it expected him to be a successful probationer and encouraged appellant to comply with the terms of probation and then seek a reduction of the conviction to a misdemeanor. b. relevant legal principles most crimes are classified as either felonies or misdemeanors, according to the explicit label or the prescribed punishment. (people v. park (2013) 56 cal.4th 782, 789.) so-called wobblers, however, fall into a special class of crimes involving conduct that varies widely in its level of seriousness, and may be charged, or in the discretion of the court, punished as a felony or a misdemeanor. (ibid.; people v. feyrer (2010) 48 cal.4th 426, 433, fn. 4.) assault with a deadly weapon is a wobbler (park, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 790), and where a defendant stands convicted of this offense, the trial court has discretion to reduce the felony to a misdemeanor either by declaring the crime a misdemeanor at the time probation is granted or at a later timefor example, when the defendant has successfully completed probation people v. tran (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 877, 885, quoting park, supra, at p. 793). 5 a request to reduce a wobbler to a misdemeanor for abuse of discretion. (people v. medina (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 61, 65.) we will not substitute our judgment for the judgment of the trial court, nor will we reverse a decision simply because reasonable people might disagree. (people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 978.) it is the burden of the party challenging the sentence on appeal to establish that the trial showing, the trial court is presumed to have acted to achieve legitimate sentencing objectives, and its discretionary determination to impose a particular sentence will not be set id. at pp. 977978.) notion that a defendant, by proving his ability to comply with the requirements of the law and certain special conditions imposed upon him, may avoid the more severe sanctions justified by his people v. arnold (2004) 33 cal.4th 294, 303.) conviction of a wobbler ofwith discriminating appreciation of the effect of the form of [the having in mind the rule that the charge remains a felony until a contrary pronouncement of judgment occurs. [citation.] . . . thus, when [the court] suspends pronouncement of sentence for an alternatively punishable offense, it is to be assumed that while [the court] did not wish to deprive the defendant of his [or her] to rehabilitate himself [or herself] (by stigmatizing him [or her] even temporarily as one against whom a judgment of conviction of felony and sentence to prison had been entered) the [court] also 6 did not wish to classify the defendant as a mere mis[de]meanant whose offense would not be available, for example, to increase himself [or herself] a recidivist. [citation.] when probation is granted without imposition of a sentence, a defendant remains under the jurinot only in relation to his [or her] probationary status but also in relation to the character of the offense of which people v. feyrer, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 439; people v. tran, supra, 242 cal.app.4th at p. 890.) c. was neither irrational nor arbitrary request to reduce his felony conviction to a misdemeanor was arbitrary and thus constituted an abuse of discretion. in so was inconsistent with the multiple mitigating factors cited by the court in imposing a probationary sentence with minimal jail time. but such mitigating circumstancesincluding the significance of mi-do not establish he was entitled to reduction to a misdemeanor as a matter of law. rather, court exercised by placing him on probation, even though his use of a deadly weapon made him presumptively ineligible for such leniency absent unusual circumstances. ( 1203, subd. (e)(2) best be served if the person is granted probation, probation shall not be granted to any of the following persons: [] . . . [] . . . any person who used, or attempted to use, a deadly weapon upon 7 a human being in connection with the perpetration of the crime of the trial court showed considerable insight and compassion in recognizing the circumstances that led appellant to commit this crime. it also appreciated the risk it was taking by handing down such a light punishment. to balance that risk, the court rationally maintained the felony status of the conviction while inviting appellant to seek a reduction to a misdemeanor in the future after he had complied with the terms of his probation. in so doing, the trial court did not abuse its discretion. ii. the sentencing minute order must be pronouncement of judgment the minute order from the sentencing hearing in this case states that the trial court imposed a victim restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a probation revocation fine ( 1202.44), a $40 court security assessment ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), and a $30.00 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373). in fact, the trial court did not impose any of these fines and assessments. with respect to the victim restitution and probation revocation fines reflected in the minute order, the parties assert, and we agree that when a discrepancy between the oral proceedings and exists, the oral pronouncement of the court controls. (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185; people v. zachery (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 380, 387388.) further, although the trial court should have stated a reason for the re to do so was not raised below. accordingly, the error cannot be raised for the first time on appeal (people v. tillman (2000) 22 cal.4th 300, 302303), and the minute order must be corrected to conform to 8 the oral pronouncement of judgment (people v. andrade (2015) 238 cal.app.4th 1274, 1311). the same reasoning applies with respect to the court security and criminal conviction assessments reflected in the minute order but not ordered by the trial court. the people assert, however, thmandatory assessments resulted in an unauthorized sentence that must be corrected on appeal. we disagree. in people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157, 1164, 1168, our colleagues in division seven held that due process under both the united states constitution (u.s. const., 14th amend.) and the california constitution (cal. const., art. i,  7) ore it imposes court facilities and court operations assessments under penal (dueas, at p. 1164.) in the wake of dueas, these assessments can no longer be considered mandatory because a court may refrain from imposing them based on its determination that the eal. (people v. frandsen (apr. 4, 2019, b280329) ___ cal.app.5th ___ [2019 cal.app. lexis 309]; see people v. tillman, supra, 22 cal.4th at pp. 302303.) the march 5, 2018 minute order must be corrected, and the court security and criminal conviction assessments as well as the victim restitution and probation revocation fines reflected therein pronouncement of judgment. 9 disposition the matter is remanded to the trial court with directions to conform the sentencing minute order to the trial pronouncement of judgment, by striking the following provisions: (1) all references to payment of a restitution fine in the amount of $400.00 pursuant to penal code section 1202.4, subdivision (b); (2) all references to payment of a probation revocation restitution fine in the amount of $400.00 pursuant to penal code section 1202.44; (3) imposition of a $40.00 court security assessment under penal code section 1465.8, subdivision (a)(1); and (4) imposition of a $30.00 criminal conviction assessment pursuant to government code section 70373. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, p. j. we concur: chavez, j. hoffstadt, j. 