filed 6/20/19 p. v. rojo ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. angel rojo, defendant and appellant. b289621 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka105000) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, juan carlos dominguez, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. stephen m. hinkle, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, joseph p. lee and jaime l. fuster, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 and crashed, killing his passenger. on appeal, he argues insufficient evidence supported his convictions for second degree murder and for dissuading a witness by force. he also contends his case should be remanded to allow the trial court to exercise sentencing discretion in light of senate bill no. 1393 (20172018 reg. sess.), which we abbreviate as sb 1393. all code citations are to the penal code. we remand for resentencing but otherwise affirm. i we recite the facts in the light most favorable to the prosecution. on march 8, 2017to watch a fight on tv. around a dozen folks were there and rojo testifi after the fight, rojo and each otherfirst inside the apartment and then in its back parking lot. elizabeth h. was in the parking lot, sitting in her car. she was talking on the phone to her boyfriend. ernesto chavez went to elizabeth h.ld her not to call the police. elizabeth h. was confused. would i elizabeth h. l elizabeth h. me. to handle th chavez closed the door and elizabeth h. continued to talk to her boyfriend about their plans for the night. 3 then rojo opened elizabeth h. ot to elizabeth h. the cops. that [she] was on th rojo pulled her out of the car by her arm. old elizabeth h. shaking me by the arms, and he then just started hitting me. . . . he pun rojo knocked her out. rojo went to a nearby parking lot whparked. rojo got into the driver seat and manuel rodriguez got into the passenger seat. a friend injured from fighting was in the back seat. he had a backpack with two bottles of jack daniels in it. drank it he drove with alcohol in his lap the area rojo drove through was residential; houses lined both sides of the street. he passed multiple cars. one car rested at a stop sign when he drove past at 60 to 90 miles per hour. rodriguez told rojo responded, sign. i actually seen it, but it was too late. i had already passed it. curve. i remember there being a curve, and i tried to press the at happened after the he woke up upside down in the car. a witness testified the car hit a palm tree and flipped over. a police officer estimated rojo was driving 80 to 100 miles per hour at the moment he braked. rodriguez was dead. he ran, but was arrested for being under the influence of alcohol. 4 drunk when all , and bloodshot eyes. rojo was at the police station, rojo admitted to an officer he was drunk. no blood or breath sample was ever taken from rojo. at trial, rojo said he a jury convicted rojo of several crimes, including second degree murder and dissuading a witness by force. rojo admitted to a prior felony conviction for the purposes of the five-year prior-felony sentencing enhancement. ( 667, subd. (a)(1).) the trial court imposed three 5-nce. ii degree murder. we review the record in the light most favorable to the prosecution to determine whether a rational trier of fact could find the elements of second degree murder beyond a reasonable doubt. (jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 324; people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1263.) on appeal, rojo contests the sufficiency of the evidence for a single element: malice. ( 187189.) malice is implied where (1) the natural consequences of the act that caused the killing endanger life, and (2) the defendant is aware of that risk but acts deliberately with conscious disregard for life. (people v. knoller (2007) 41 cal.4th 139, 157; people v. watson (1981) 30 cal.3d 290, 296.) the natural consequences of driving through a residential area at 80 to 100 miles per hour while drunk endanger life. there was sufficient evidence for the jury to infer rojo appreciated that fact but consciously disregarded it. after rojo 5 all right. i that shows awareness of the risk he was (see people v. watson, supra, 30 cal.3d at p. 301 [defendant actual awareness of the great risk of harm which he had created].) the jury could infer the presence of other cars further increased he lethal risk he was creating. (people v. albright defendant knew other people were on the road, and must have known of the high probability he would cause death if he continued his conduct and hit another car. i was aware this evidence was sufficient to find implied malice. not between the subjective awareness required for implied malice and the objective reasonableness assessed for manslaughter. (people v. bennett (1991) 54 cal.3d 1032, 10361037.) the evidence showed rojo was aware of the risk his actions created. rojo distinguishes cases that found implied malice by pointing to factors present in those cases but absent from his. but courts have repeatedly rejected attempts to reduce analysis of implied malice to a checklist of necessary factors. (people v. olivas (1985) 172 cal.app.3d 984, 989 (olivas) watson as deliberately declining to prescribe a formula for analysis of vehicular homicide cases, instead requiring a case-by-people v. mccarnes (1986) 179 cal.app.3d 525, 535 (mccarnes), quoting olivas at p. 988989; people v. superior 6 court (costa) (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 690, 698, citing olivas and mccarnes at p. 535.) there was yet intoxication is unnecessary for a finding of implied malice. (people v. moore (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 937, 939.) even if it were, the jury could conclude rojo was too intoxicated to drive without endangering life. the arresting officer testified rojo smelled like alcohol, and had slurred speech and bloodshot eyes. rojo admitted that night, and at trial, he was drunk. proof rojo intended to drive before he drank is likewise unnecessary. (olivas, supra, 172 cal.app.3d at p. 989.) even if it were, there was evidence rojo drank after he was in the ew he would be driving. evidence of educational and legal notice of the dangers of drunk driving is unnecessary. people v. watson, supra, 30 cal.3d at page 300, which sustained a second degree murder indictment, f the hazards of driving vehicles that would have demonstrated his awareness of to repeat, after running two stop signs, rojo told rodriguez he would slow down. that statement shows his awareness of risk. sufficient evidence supported the second degree murder conviction. iii sufficient evidence also supported the witness dissuasion conviction. it is a crime to dissuade a witness from reporting a crime where the dissuasion is accompanied by force. ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1).) 7 rojo argues insufficient evidence supported his conviction because (1) elizabeth h. did not witness a crime, and (2) she had no intention to report a crime. his first point is incorrect and his second point is irrelevant. for the purposes of section 136.1, a witness includes any person who knows facts relating to a crime, or who a reasonable person would believe knows such facts. ( 136, subd. (2).) elizabeth h. observed a crime when she saw men fighting, which was after chavez told her not to call the police but before rojo warned and beat her. (see, e.g.,  242.) section 136.1 contains no requirement that the witness actually report or intend to report the crime. ( 136.1.) what matters is whether the defendant attempted to dissuade a witness. rojo intended to dissuade elizabeth h. from calling the and then punched her. sufficient evidence supported this conviction. iv rojo requests remand to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion under sb 1393. sb 1393 amended the penal code to give trial courts discretion to strike five-year prior felony enhancements imposed under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the parties agree sb 1393 applies to this case. but the prosecution argues remand is unnecessary because the trial court clearly indicated it would not exercise its discretion under the new bill. (people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, 425 [holding that in light of a new senate bill, remand for resentencing was required unless the record showed the trial court clearly indicated it would not have exercised its discretion].) 8 gest it imposed five-year prior felony enhancements because doing so was mandatory. after imposing the enhancements, the court must we therefore remand. disposition we remand to allow the trial court to exercise its sentencing discretion under sb 1393. the judgment is otherwise affirmed. wiley, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. 