 filed 5/15/19 p. v. garibay ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. manuel anthony garibay, defendant and appellant. b289440 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va142960) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. john a. torribio, judge. affirmed in part and remanded with directions. joanna rehm, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and corey j. robins, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 manuel anthony garibay appeals the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of first degree murder (pen. code,1  187, subd. (a)), with true findings on a gang enhancement allegation ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) and personal and principal firearm use allegations ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c) (d), & (e)(1)). the trial court imposed an aggregate sentence of 50 years to life, consisting of 25 years to life for the murder conviction, a consecutive term of 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement, and a suspended 10-year term for the gang enhancement. appellant contends the matter must be remanded for resentencing because the record shows the trial court was unaware of its discretion under senate bill no. 6202 to strike the firearm enhancement in the interests of justice. respondent concedes that the trial court appears to have been unaware of the change in the law, but maintains that remand is unnecessary stricken or dismissed the firearm enhancement if it had been aware of its discretion to do so. wcomments at sentencing to be ambiguous, necessitating remand to afford the court an opportunity to exercise its discretion with respect to imposition of the gun enhancement in light of senate bill no. 620. factual background around 1:40 in the afternoon on july 30, 2016, raul cervantes was fatally shot as he stood talking with another man 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 statutes 2017, chapter 682, section 2. 3 on the gage bridge in bell gardens. the shooter wore an oversized black hoodie and an la dodgers hat, which concealed his face. one witness saw the shooter run up the embankment and onto the bridge before shooting cervantes in the side with what appeared to be a long-barreled rifle. officers recovered four expended .22 caliber long rifle casings, which could have been fired from a rifle or a handgun. a across gage avenue, and onto river drive, where the shooter appeared to have fled in a car. using surveillance video, police identified the car as a gray nissan, which jazmine n. had rented the day before from hertz. jazmine lived with codefendant salvador franco in a house near the gage bridge. on july 30, 2016, jazmine awoke to find franco had taken the rental car. jazmine called franco, and he told her not to call him because he was doing something right , jazmine called franco again, and this time he told her to meet him at a particular house on vinevale avenue, a bell gardens locos gang hangout. when jazmine arrived at the house franco told her what had happened on the bridge. he sounded panicked and scared. appellant was arrested about a month after the shooting. while appellant was in custody, police placed a paid informant in the jury. appellant told the informant he laid down in the seat of dropped off, and then he appellant described the gun he used a-ass rifle.after the shooting appellant ran across the street, jumped over the 4 guardrail, and ran down the embankment where waiting in the gray nissan. appellant hopped in the car and they took off. appellant told the informant he was wearing a black sweater with a hood and an l.a. hat that covered his face. both appellant and franco are admitted members of the bell gardens locos criminal street gang. appellant told the informant the victim was a member of the rival walnut street gang. when an officer walked franco past identified franco to the informant as his homie. athe time of the shooting was consistent with the movement of the gray nissan seen in the surveillance videos near the gage bridge. discussion remand is required to enable the trial court to exercise its discretion to impose or strike the firearm enhancement the jury found true all three firearm enhancement allegations: that in the commission of the murder, appellant personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), he personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (c)), and he personally and intentionally discharged a firearm proximately causing death ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c) provide for imposition of a consecutive term of imprisonment of 10 and 20 years, respectively, and subdivision (d) calls for imposition of a consecutive term of 25 years to life. on october 11, 2017, the governor signed senate bill no. 620. (20172018 reg. sess.) previously, section 12022.53 required the imposition of specified sentencing enhancements based on a true finding that the defendant used a firearm in the 5 commission of a felony; the trial court had no discretion to strike an applicable enhancement. ( 12022.53, subds. (b)(d), (h).) the legislation amends section 12022.53, subdivision (h) to remove the prohibition on striking a firearm enhancement, and allows at the time of sentencing, [to] strike or dismiss an enhancement ch. 682,  2.) in this case, the people filed two sentencing memoranda, one for each defendant. as to appellant, the people requested imposition of the consecutive term of 25 years to life pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d) for the firearm enhancement. the memorandum contained no mention of senate bill no. 620 or the enhancement under amended section 12022.53, subdivision (h). the trial court sentenced both appellant and his codefendant together on april 12, 2018. at the outset of the sentencing hearing, the trial court stated it had read the sentencing report recommendations were in sentencing appellant the court imposed the 25 years to life consecutive term under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). the parties agree that the amendment to section 12022.53 applies retroactively to nonfinal judgments under the rule of in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 745. and because the judgment of senate bill no. 620 took effect, appellant was entitled to the benefits of the 6 amendments to section 12022.53recommendati the attorney general contends remand is not required here because the record shows the trial court would not have exercised discretion to strike the firearm enhancement. we disagree. proceeded with sentencing on the . . . assumption it lacked discretion, remand is necessary so that the trial court may have the opportunity to exercise its sentencing discretion at a new sentencing hearing. [citations.] defendants are entitled to its discretionary authority cannot exercise its informed people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, 425.) therethe trial court would not have reduced the sentence even if at the required. (people v. almanza (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 1104, 1110.) the record of the sentencing hearing in this case contains with regard to imposition of the firearm enhancement it still would have imposed it. the no rvague sentencing recommendations were hardly an unambiguous statement of intent to impose the maximum sentence allowed regardless of any discretion to do otherwise. given that the legislature has 12022.53 7 court would have exercised discretion it plainly did not know it had. on this record, we cannot say that no reasonable court would strike the firearm enhancement, and we will not speculate as to how the trial court here might exercise its discretion. we therefore remand the matter to afford the trial court an opportunity to exercise its discretion to strike or impose the firearm enhancement in accordance with section 12022.53, subdivision (h). 8 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. the matter is remanded with directions that the trial court exercise its discretion with respect to imposition of the firearm enhancement under penal code section 12022.53. not to be published. lui, p. j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. chavez, j. 