filed 9/24/19 p. v. gallegos ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. mark anthony gallegos, defendant and appellant. b289459 los angeles county super. ct. no. ba457134 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, katherine mader, judge. affirmed. russell s. babcock, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, colleen m. tiedemann and michael katz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant mark anthony gallegos of three counts of making criminal threats and three counts of attempted extortion. on appeal, defendant contends: (1) the evidence was insufficient to support the convictions because the threats to the victim were not sufficiently specific or immediate; (2) the trial misconduct; (3) the trial court improperly excluded evidence of arrest; and (4) trial counsel was ineffective for failing to object to evidence of a threat in which defendant did not participate. we affirm. procedural background the people charged defendant with three criminal threats (pen. code,1  422, subd. (a); counts 1, 3, and 5) and three attempted extortions ( 524; counts 2, 4, and 6) against raul barragan.2 the jury found defendant guilty of all six charges. the court sentenced defendant to a total term of four years and four months for the criminal threats: three years on count 1; eight months on count 3, and eight months on count 5. the court imposed and stayed ( 654) three 16-month sentences for the attempted extortions. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 the conduct alleged in counts 1 and 2 occurred on april 1, 2016; the conduct alleged in counts 3 and 4 occurred on august 3, 2016; and the conduct alleged in counts 5 and 6 occurred on august 5, 2016. 3 factual background raul barragan operated a business selling dried chiles and spices at a large wholesale produce market in downtown los angeles. barragan bought his chiles from ismael lopez, the owner of red hot chiles. over time, barragan accumulated a $24,000 debt to lopez that he could not pay. unable to meet this and other obligations, barragan closed his business in june 2016. barragan then went to work for seller at the market. on three different occasions, defendant threatened to harm barragan and his family if barragan did not pay his debt to lopez. lopez himself threatened barragan once. after these threats, barragan moved himself and his family to a new scared. they knew where we lived. and my family asked me to barragan rated his fear as an 11 on a scale of one to 10. 1. defendant and lopez threatened barragan to collect a $24,000 debt. 1.1. april 1, 2016 (counts 1 and 2) on april 1, 2016, defendant visited and barragan had seen sharky around the market always arrive with ismael lopez, the owner of red hot chiles. e was there to in a confident, threatening tone, defendant 4 he said, know where you live. you defendant told barragan he had some very ugly people. defendant told barragan to sign a document saying that barragan owed $24,000. when barragan questioned the legality of this, said, my client wants you to pay him. and i am going to get the barragan was frightened defendant would do something to harm his family. after his business closed for the day, barragan called detective barboza, who advised barragan to write down what had happened and to keep a record of any future visits. 1.2. july 10, 2016 on sunday, july 10, 2016, lopez, the owner of red hot chiles, he told barragan, know where you live now. i want my money, pay me. if notlopez insisted, not going to take me for a punk. yore going to pay me hey were close to my house where my children are, where my family is. and that scares a person. and you feel like yes, they are going to do 1.3. august 3, 2016 (counts 3 and 4) on august 3, 2016, defendant visited barragan at produce. defendant showed him invoices for the amounts barragan owed lopez. defendant at [barragan] steadily. and he made it seem that he meant what defendant threatened barragan, come to a payment agre5 something defendant defendant made barragan or his family. as barragan watched, defendant walked away and spoke with lopez, whose business was close to . when defendant returned, he told barragan that lopez wanted barragan to work for him. lopez would pay barragan $800 a week and forgive the debt. barragan declined because 1.4. august 5, 2016 (counts 5 and 6) on august 5, 2016, defendant visited barragan again at produce. when defendant learned that barragan had not reached an agreement with lopez, defendant raised his voice, spread his arms, and challenged barragan: barragan interpreted 2. defendant had a history of using threats and violence to collect debts. defendant had used threats or violence to collect debts at least twice before. 2.1. margarita campos and andres quiroz margarita campos owned a restaurant on south main street in los angeles. in march 2015, the restaurant called to tell her there were men at the restaurant who wanted to speak with the owners. when campos and her husband, andres quiroz, arrived with their baby, 6 inside the restaurant, defendant explained he was there to collect on an invoice. when quiroz and campos explained the debt belonged to the previous owners of the restaurant, defendant replied he owners and when we bought the business, we bought everything, defendant ] business. he said that he was going to send someone for them to do something to the business and to me and my husband because he had my address where i defendant knew that quiroz was from mexico, and he threatened to have him deported. after about 30 minutes, defendant told them he would be back for the money and left. about a week later, defendant returned with the same two men. one of the men came inside and asked quiroz to come outside where defendant and the other man were waiting. when quiroz would not pay, defendant repeated his threats from the one and the other started hitting him. when campos threatened to call the police, defendant told her, ot scared of the police. i [campos] should keep [her] mouth shut; if not, [her] eyes would see something that they were not going to like 7 2.2. jose espinosa jose espinosa grew vegetables in ventura county and sold them to markets in los angeles. in late 2014 or early 2015, defendant office. defendant brought three men with him: one came inside the office with defendant and the door to make sure nobody in an aggressive manner, defendant demanded that espinosa pay a business debt of about $30,000 when espinosa explained he was just a manager and employee, from the moment he arrived, defendant threatened espinosa. he said at, where i espinosa defendant drew up a document in the office saying that espinosa owed $100,000. defendant pushed and threatened espinosa until he signed that document out of fear. defendant demanded some immediate e of the espinosa and demanded money. on each visit, espinosa would try to give him from $1,000 to $1,500, but sometimes he had no money to give. defendant always brought extra men and always made the same threats. during one visitespinosa by the arms, and defendant hit espinosa in the face. espinosa began living in motels, and changing motels every couple of weeks. he did this for about four months. finally, he 8 3. defense case defendant had been convicted of felony burglary three times in the 1990s, roughly once every three years. in 2003, he was convicted of felony forgery. he was now, however, was 46 years old, had two daughters and a wife of 22 years, and no longer lived defendant admitted he had visited campos/quiroz and espinosa at their workplaces to collect debts, but he denied threatening them. he had been in the collections business for about 18 years. his principal means of getting payment was a flier he handed barragan during their first meeting had a photo of three people saying in large global fresh is writing bad endant testified, policy he did not go into called. he never threatened to hurt anyone or their family. defendant met barragan in 2013 or 2014 when defendant first began doing collections at the produce market. defendant [they] lopez had asked to go ahead, see if i could help him out with mr. barraganin april 2016 about the debt. he admitted returning on august 3 and 5, 2016. according to defendant, he offered to help barragan collect on debts that were owed to him so that barragan would have money to pay lopez. defendant never threatened barragan, and he had nothing to do with lopez threatening barragan. 9 defendant admitted he lied to police when he told them he had never contacted barragan about the lopez debt. discussion 1. convictions for criminal threats and extortion defendant contends insufficient evidence supports his convictions for criminal threats and extortion. as we will explain, substantial evidence supports the convictions. 1.1. standard of review when a defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the evidence proved the elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87.) we draw all reasonable inferences in favor of the judgment and do not resolve credibility issues or evidentiary conflicts. (ibid.) 1.2. criminal threats to support a conviction for criminal threats under section 422, the people must prove: (1) the defendant willfully threatened to commit a crime which would result in death or great bodily injury; (2) the defendant made the statement with the intent that it be taken as a threat; (3) the threat, on its face and under the circumstances in which it was made, was so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat; and (4) the threat caused the other person reasonably to be in sustained fear for her own safety 10 or for the safety of her immediate family, regardless of whether the defendant actually intended to carry out the threat. (people v. butler (2000) 85 cal.app.4th 745, 753 (butler).) only the third elementwhether his threats were sufficiently immediate and specific to convey to barragan a gravity of purpose and immediate prospect of execution of the threats. he contends he did not specify precisely what he would do or when, and that his threats, therefore, lacked the immediacy and specificity required by the statutee indicate with any specificity what would happen to mr. barragan remarks, while offensive, are not immediate and are equivocal that give meanbutler, supra, 85 cal.app.4th at p. 753 the words were sufficiently immediate and specific can be based on all the surrounding circumstances and not just on the words alone. id. at p. 754.) is not insufficient simply because it does not communicate a time or precise manner of execution[;] section 422 does not require those details to be expressed.id. at p. 752, internal quotes omitted; see also people v. mendoza (1997) 59 cal.app.4th 1333, 13401341 (mendoza) [same].) and while immediacy is a necessary element of section 422, the statute does not require an immediate ability to carry out the threat. (people v. lopez (1999) 11 74 cal.app.4th 675, 679680; calcrim no. 1300.) the word egree of seriousness and imminence which is understood by the victim to be attached to the future prospect of the threat being carried out, should the people v. melhado (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 1529, 1538.) the first time defendant met with barragan on april 1, 2016, he introduced himself as sharky and told barragan that he was there to collect a $24,000 debt. defendant told barragan he should come to an agreement about the debt because barragan defendant did not need to be more specific than this. (see mendoza, supra, 59 cal.app.4th at p. 1340.) in mendoza you fucked up happy town[. mendoza, supra, 59 cal.app.4th at p. 1340.) just two days before these words, the victim had testified against , who was on trial for murdering a police officer. (id. at p. 1341.) the appellate court concluded this was sufficient to affirm a conviction for violation of section 422. particular criminal act or give other particulars, a rational juror could have foundbased on all the surrounding circumstancesre sufficiently unequivocal, unconditional, immediate and specific to convey to [the victim] a gravity of purpose and immediate prospect of death or serious bodily mendoza, at p. 1342.) the court explained that the jury could interpret words in the context of mendoza and association with the happy town gang. (id. at p. 1341.) 12 capable of violence and would not hesitate to retaliate against her for hurting a fellow gang member and to prevent her from giving ibid.) in the present case, barragan owed a sizable debt and he was being pursued outside the legal process by a large, intimidating defendant knew preas in mendoza, these probative circumstances allowed the jury to understand that defendant was communicating a specific and immediate plan to inflict great bodily injury or death if barragan did not pay the debt. dduring the second incident, on august 3, 2016, followed the same pattern, and they were also sufficient to support a criminal threats conviction. defendant by this point, lopez himself had come threatened to harm barragan and his family. this second threat by defendant was immediate and specific enough that barragan was afraid . in the third incident, on august 5, 2016, when defendant learned barragan had not reached an agreement with lopez, defendant raised his arms, spread them wide, and said barragan interpreted as something was going to happen to [him or his family]the jury was free to consider this threat fuller, more explicit prior threats and in light 13 . (mendoza, supra, 59 cal.app.4th at p. 1340 be considered as one of the defendant relies on in re ricky t. (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1132 to show that his threats were too vague and nonspecific to support his convictions. defendant, however, omits important facts from that case. in ricky t., a school teacher opened a door into the head of a 16-year-old student. (id. at p. 1135.) the student ] face and saying he id. at p. 1137.) the court determined not called until the following day. (id. at pp. 11371138.) here, by contrast, barragan perceived threat as sufficiently immediate that he reported it to the police as soon as the market closed that day. the words in ricky t. words in this case were repeated by defendant on at least two occasions and by lopez on one occasion. (id. at p. 1141.) defendant also contends the threats in in re george t. (2004) 33 cal.4th 620 (george t.) were much more egregious than if the threats in george t. were not criminal, he argues, . the alleged threats in george t., however, were lines in a poem written by a high school student enrolled in honors englishfor i am dark, destructive, & dangerous. i slap on my face of happiness but inside i am evil!! for i can be the next kid to bring guns to kill students at school. id. at p. 625.) the student shared this poem with three classmates, two of whom became frightened. (ibid; id. at p. 627.) although the 14 words were under the circumstances, they tute an actual threat to kill or id. at p. 636.) importantly, the court explained there was no history of any confid. at p. 637.) the ameliorating circumstances of george t. simply do not apply to this case. there were no neutral explanations for defendant was not using poetry to express difficult personal feelings. his business was collecting debts through fear and intimidation, and he delivered his words in a manner calculated to promise injury if the debt was not paid. 1.3. attempted extortion defendant contends that his threats also lacked the specificity and immediacy necessary to support his attempted extortion convictions. there is no merit to this argument. attempted extortion is an attempt by means of any threat to obtain money or property from another. ( 524; calcrim no. 1830.) unlike criminal threats under section 422, extortion does not require a threat to commit a crime resulting in death or great bodily injury; it is enough to threaten injury to the person or property of the person threatened. ( 524, 519.) just as with criminal threats under section 422, extortion does not require any . people v. bollaert from all the circumstance ibid.) here, jimmediate enough to support the criminal threats convictions, so too were they specific and immediate enough to support his convictions for attempted extortion. 15 2. uncharged acts defendant next contends the court abused its discretion and violated his right to due process when it admitted evidence of the campos-quiroz and espinosa incidents under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b). he contends these incidents constituted improper propensity evidence and were unduly prejudicial under evidence code sections 352 and 1101, subdivision (a). we disagree. 2.1. relevant proceedings the defense theory was that defendant never threatened barragan: debt, but he the court found under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), that evidence of similar attempts to collect money and claims of threats would be highly relevant and probative as to show whether or not [defendant had threatened barragan]prove [modus operandi] .the highly similar nature of what these other people are alleging the court excluded evidence of a third incident where the at court also excluded, as overly prejudicial, evidence defendant wielded a gun to coerce debtors into smuggling drugs across the border in their trucks. 16 2.2. applicable law and standard of review california law precludes propensity evidence. (evid. code,  predisposition or propensity to engage in a particular type of behavior) is inadmissible to prove a defendant acted in accordance with that character on a specific occasion. (ibid.) this rule, however, evidence of uncharged misconduct when [it] is relevant to aracter or people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 393 (ewoldt).) for example, evidence of uncharged misconduct is intent or plan. (evid. code,  1101, subd. (b).) to prove an uncharged act is relevant to common design or plan, the uncharged act and charged offense plan rather than a series of similar spontaneous acts, but the ewoldt, at p. 403.) to be relevant to intent, even less similarity is requiredthe charged and uncharged conduct must be similar enough to support an inference that the defendant harbored the same intent in each instance. (id. at p. 402; people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1147, 1149.) even if the uncharged act is relevant to establish modus operandi or intent, the trial court must still weigh its probative value against its prejudicial effect. (ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th. at p. 404; evid. code,  352.) uncharged offenses are admissible substantial probative valueprobative value is not substantially outweighed by the probability that [their] admission [will] ... create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of 17 misleading the jury. ewoldt, at p. 404; evid. code,  352.) we s evidentiary rulings for abuse of discretion. (people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 637.) 2.3. the court did not abuse its discretion. defendant argues that the court erred in admitting evidence of the uncharged acts against campos-quiroz and espinosa because they were not sufficiently similar to the charged offenses and were more prejudicial than probative. specifically, he notes the following dissimilarities: 1) the two uncharged incidents both involved physical violence against the victims; 2) defendant threatened to have quiroz deported; 3) defendant took money and a forklift from espinosa; and 4) -year-old child. despite these points of dissimilarity, the circumstances of the campos-quiroz and espinosa incidents were similar enough to the barragan incidents that the court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the evidence. barragan, campos, quiroz, and espinosa were all involved in the produce business. defendant approached each victim at his or her place of work. he threatened the families and children of all the victims, telling them he knew where they lived and where their family members could be found. these common features were sufficient to permit the jury to infer defendant had a common method of collecting debts. (see people v. balcom (1994) 7 cal.4th 414, 424 [several points of similarity supported the inference defendant committed o a design or plan that he either employed the court also did not abuse its discretion in finding the probative value of the campos-quiroz and espinosa incidents was not substantially outweighed by a stantial danger of 18 undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the (evid. code,  352.) defendant testified he minded his when he asked for payment. he denied threatening debtors. the uncharged acts showed, to the contrary, that defendant employed threats against family members and children on at least two other occasions when collecting debts. the uncharged acts had substantial probative value because they son to (see evid. code,  210.) given the substantial probative value, the court reasonably determined any undue prejudice did not require exclusion. (see people v. walker (2006) 139 cal.app.4th 7 3. arrest for threatening lopez and fair cross- by excluding evidence that barragan was arrested for threatening lopez in january 2017. we disagree. at trial, the defense offered the arrest evidence to impeach barragan, arguing a]bout what happened between himself, lopez and [defendant] because these three people are intimately the court ruled that the evidence was inadmissible because it was not relevant.3 3 the court explained: ind it to be relevant. what happened between mr. lopez and mr. barragan after this 19 the trial offered for impeachment that is collateral and has no relevance to people v. contreras (2013) 58 cal.4th 123, 152.) the confrontation clause and other constitutional guarantees do not have ps credibility. (ibid.; see delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 680.) the court did not abuse its discretion in excluding evidence evidence of a prior conviction may be used to impeach a witness, that is not necessarily true of evidence of an arrest. (see, e.g., people v. dyer (1988) 45 cal.3d 26, 48 irrelevant].) second, the excluded evidence would not have produced a significantly different impression for threatening lopez occurred five months after defendant made his last threat in this case. that there were hard feelings between barragan and lopez certainly did not require additional shed any further light on the threats defendant uttered in april and august 2016. in short, the court did not err in excluding this evidence. 4. evidence that lopez threatened barragan lastly, defendant contends trial counsel was ineffective for failing to object when barragan testified about lopez threatening and whether or not anything went on between your client and mr. 20 him at his home. according to defendant, this testimony was irrelevant and so damaging that counsel could have had no reasonable tactical purpose in not objecting. we are not persuaded. 4.1. governing legal principles on appeal, when a defendant claims his counsel was ineffective, the reviewing court must consider whether the record contains any explanation for the challenged aspects of the repre (people v. mitcham (1992) 1 cal.4th 1027, 10571058, citing strickland v. washington (1984) counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. [citation.] otherwise, the claim is more appropriately raised in a people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211, as modified (aug. 13, 2003).) in other words, if there is a reas decision, a claim of ineffective assistance on appeal must fail. the alleged incompetence stems from counsel[d]eciding whether to object is inherently tactical, and the failure to object will rarely establish ineffect people v. lopez (2008) 42 cal.4th 960, 972.) 4.2. defendant has failed to prove ineffective assistance of counsel on direct appeal. here, the record discloses a reasonable explanation for to bar21 him: counsel could have reasonably determined any objection would have been futile. the evidence lopez threatened barragan at his home on july 10, 2016, was highly relevant to prove the reasonableness of ed him the second and third times. the jury saw a photo of defendant conferring with lopez on august 3, 2016, made ust 5, 2016 threats more frightening. (butler, supra, 85 cal.app.4th at p. 753 [criminal threats are interpreted considering the surrounding circumstances].) defendant complains the evidence of visit to the barragan residence was indisputably much more threatening and ominous than any of the charged conduct.but this is precisely the point. bjection would have been futile because se, where family was present, would have caused a reasonable person to be even more afraid when defendant returned and threatened barragan again since defendant was collecting a debt for lopez. 22 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. egerton, j. 