filed 10/10/19 p. v. ellington ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. marcus ruben ellington, defendant and appellant. b289935 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya095609) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, scott t. millington, judge. affirmed and remanded for further proceedings. heather l. beugen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, jaime l. fuster and joseph p. lee, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction a jury convicted defendant and appellant marcus ruben ellington of two counts of possession of a collapsible baton (pen. code,1  22210), criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a)), and two counts of sexual battery ( 243.4, subd. (e)(1)). defendant admitted he had five prior strike convictions under the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i) & 1170.12, subd. (a)-(e)), he had a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and he served a prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced defendant to 55 years to life plus 360 days in state prison.2 on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury, sua sponte, on the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threats; we must remand the matter to the trial court for it to exercise its section 1385 discretion whether to strike the section 667, subdivision (a)(1) five-year enhancement; and we should conduct an independent review of the sealed transcript of the trial courts in camera hearing conducted pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). we affirm the judgment and remand the matter to the trial court for it to exercise its section 1385 1 all statutory references are to the penal code. 2 collapsible baton and dismissed it in furtherance of justice pursuant to section 1385. it also dismissed the section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancement in furtherance of justice pursuant to section 1385. 3 discretion whether to strike defendants section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement. ii. background a. the prosecution in february 2016, l.w. worked as an in-home caregiver for defendant. on february 11, 2016, while l.w. was feeding defendant in her bedroom, defendant approached and said to l.w. that he was going to fire all the other nurses, but that she seemed nice and could stay with the program over his clothing. later that day, as l.w. was mopping the kitchen floor, defendant walked behind her and touched the lower part of her left buttock, over her clothes, with his hand. defendant then raised his hand towards hip as he kept walking. near the end of her shift that day, as l.w. was leaving the bathroom, defendant stood by the doorway in such a position that l.w. would have to squeeze by him. as he stood by the door, defendant asked l.w. what her problem was and if he was too old for her. as defendant spoke, he put his hands between l.w.legs and rubbed her vagina over her clothes. l.w. put her hand and pushed him away non-aggressively saying she was at work. she then gathered her belongings and waited by the door for her fianc, james sanders, to pick her up. 4 on the way home or later that evening, l.w. told sanders what had happened to her at work. the next morning, l.w. and sanders went to defendantpaycheck. l.w. knocked on the door. sanders stood off to the side. one of the night nurses answered, and l.w. asked to speak with defendant. defendant came to the door and spoke with l.w. as if nothing had happened. he had one hand behind his back. at , tifany willis,3 came from the back and tried to determine what was happening. defendant turned around and shoved willis, apparently trying to get her to go back in the house. when defendant turned, l.w. saw that he was holding a baton in the hand that had been behind his back. l.w. advised sanders that defendant had the baton. willis did not go back in the house and asked l.w. what was happening. l.w. told willis what defendant had done, that she would not work there any longer, and that she wanted her when sanders noticed the baton, he felt threatened and backed into the front yard. defendant followed. sanders asked defendantwhy sanders and defendant argued. sanders was upset and his tone was a little aggressive. defendant was loud and aggressive. defendant denied that he had done anything. defendant threatened l.w. and sanders, saying that he was going to get people to kill them, that he was a member of 3 during the defense case, willis described herself as -in girlfriend or fiance. 5 that he had guns in the back, that he knew where l.w. and sanders lived, that he could that he could shoot up everyone after defendant said he was a member of and had guns in the back, sanders remained in the front yard for 30 more seconds arguing with defendant about why he had touched l.w. before he and l.w. left. they left because there was nothing more to talk about and sanders believed he might be shot. the entire incident lasted about two to three minutes. as they drove away, sanders and l.w. discussed the fact that l.w. had not been paid. sanders said, paycheck. sanders texted willis or defendant and was told he could return for the paycheck. sanders believed that willis would give him the paycheck. when sanders and l.w. returned to defendanthouseabout five minutes after they leftdefendant was standing in the middle of the front yard, holding a check. as sanders approached defendant, defendant dropped the check and walked away. sanders picked up the check and left. sanders still felt threatened and was afraid that defendant could harm . . . mohe did not know what made him go back except that he wanted l.w. to be paid for the work she had done and he expected to deal with willis and not defendant. when sanders returned and saw defendant and not willis, he still stopped to get the paycheck explaining, 6 sanders and l.w. deposited the check in their bank. they then went to the police department. on february 23, 2016, gardena police department detective karen salas and other officers participated in a search an officer advised detective salas that a batonblack, extendable, and 21 inches when extendedwas found on a table. willis told detective salas that the baton was hersshe was an uber driver and used it for protection. b. the defense case on february 12, 2016, willis viewed l.w. and sanders at the door. back was as though like an ambush of some sort.defendant went to the door and invited l.w. and sanders inside. sanders declined and challenged defendant to a fight. perceiving a threat to defendant, willis handed defendant the baton. willis could hear what defendant said to sanders. defendant did not knowledge, defendant did not say that he had guns in the back. according to willis, after sanders left, he called and asked for l.w. sanders apologized for his prior behavior and said that when he came back, he would be calmer, calm enough though sanders was afraid to come back to get the check. 7 iii. discussion a. lesser included instruction defendant contends the trial court erred when it failed to instruct the jury, sua sponte, on attempted criminal threats as a lesser included offense to criminal threats. he concedes there was evidence that he threatened sanders with serious bodily that threat actually caused sanders to be in sustained fear for his safe the trial court instructed the jury that to prove defendant guilty of one, the defendant willfully threatened to unlawfully kill or unlawfully cause great bodily injury to james sanders; two, the defendant made the threat orally; three, the defendant intended that his statement be understood as a threat; four, the threat was so clear, immediate, unconditional, and specific that it communicated to james sanders a serious intention and the immediate prospect that the threat would be be [sic] carried out; five, the threat actually caused james sanders to be in sustained a lesser included uncharged offense if there is substantial evidence that would absolve the defendant from guilt of the greater, but not the lesser, offense. (people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 132.) attempted criminal threats is a lesser included offense of criminal threats. (people v. chandler (2014) 60 cal.4th 508, 513.) a defendant may be convicted of attempted 8 criminal threats when all the elements of criminal threats are proved but the victim did not have sustained fear upon hearing the threat. (in re sylvester c. (2006) 137 cal.app.4th 601, 607.) sustained fear occurs over a period of time that extends beyond what is momentary, fleeting, or transitory. fifteen minutes of fear . . . is more than sufficient to constitute sustained fear for purposes of . . . section 422. (people v. wilson (2015) 234 cal.app.4th 193, 201.) fear that lasts as little as one minute can satisfy the sustained fear element of criminal threat. (people v. fierro (2010) 180 cal.app.4th 1342, 1349 [threat to kill immediately coupled with display of weapon].) we will assume for purposes of this opinion that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threats. (see, e.g., people v. larsen (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 810of the evidence to warrant instructions should be resolved in even assuming such error, a reversal is appropriate only if including the favorable outcome had the error not occurred ([people v.] watson [(1956)] 46 cal.2d 818, 836.)(people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 178.) included offense does not necessarily amount to evidence sufficient to create a reasonable probability of a different outcome (people v. banks (2014) 59 cal.4th 1113, 1161, abrogated on another point by people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 391, fn. 3.) thus, when there is 9 criminal threats is harmless. (see ibid.) sanders testified that when he saw the baton in yard. defendant followed. as they walked, sanders kept his distance as he was concerned that defendant would hit him with baton. when defendant told sanders that he was a member of shoot him defendant was going to shoot him and l.w. sanders left because he believed it was possible that defendant was going to kill him and l.w. still afraid that defendant could harm or hurt him. he returned because he believed that l.w. needed to be paid for the work she performed. asked what made him feel as though he could return for the when i came back, i justi thought i was going to see [defendant] outside. and at the same time i still felt threatened but i still came bato his text about returning to pick up the check said that there 10 explaining that he might have used bad judgment, but he believed l.w. needed to be paid for her work. defendant argues there was evidence that sanders was not in sustained fear for his safety because he remained in although this is , sanders testified that he felt threatened when he saw the baton in defto shoot him, and continued to feel threatened when he returned the inference from testimony that his fear was sustained was thus far more plausible than that it was momentary, fleeting, or transitory. accordingly, even if we assume error, the error was harmless. b. senate bill no. 1393 senate bill no. 1393, which became effective on january 1, 2019 , amended sections 667 and 1385 to give the trial court section 1385 discretion to strike five-year sentence enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a)(1) in furtherance of justice. defendant contends that in light of senate bill no. 1393 we must remand this matter to the trial court to allow it to exercise its section 1385 discretion whether to strike his section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement. the attorney general agrees the new law applies in this case, 11 comments at sentencing clearly indicate that it would not strike the five-year enhancement. defendants are entitled to sentencing decisions made in [citations.] a court which is unaware of the scope of its on misinformation regarding a material aspect of a defendants record.[citation.] in such circumstances, we have held that the appropriate remedy is to remand for resentencing unless the record clearly indicate[s] that the trial court would have reached the same conclusion even if it had been aware that it had such discretion.(people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354, 1391.) s sentencing hearing, the trial court noted that defendant had a prior sexual battery conviction and three prior rape convictions and had two sexual battery convictions in these it added that defendant continued to deny the sexual batteries in this case and lacked remorse. strike convictions. describing two of i want the record to be very clear, i find these to be very serious, incredibly egregious prior offenses. although they were committed in 1989, you were only paroled in 2014, and you committed these offenses within three years while you were still on parole, and as i indicated, in 1985 you were convicted of the same offense, sexual battery, and you were convicted in counts 3 and 4 here. so i want the record to be very clear, the court would 12 not under any circumstance exercise its discretion under 1385 and romero[4] egregious based on those facts as well as your lengthy incarceration as well as committing the offen sentencing clearly indicate the trial court believed it would not punishment for any reason and, accordingly, the trial court would section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement. however, at the same time the trial court made its remarks about the impropriety of striking any of defendant prior three strikes convictions, it dismissed convictions for possession of a collapsible baton5 and the section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancement under section 1385 in furtherance of justice. thus, it is unclear whether the trial court would have dismissed the section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement if it had discretion to do so. accordingly, we remand the matter to the trial court to permit it to consider whether to exercise its discretion to strike defendants section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement under section 1385. c. pitchess motion before trial, pitchess motion as to complaints that detective salas had falsified police reports and planted evidence. after an in camera review of 4 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 5 see footnote 2 above. 13 , the trial court concluded there were no discoverable records. defendant contends, and the attorney general agrees, we should conduct an independent in camera review of the sealed record. we have independently reviewed the transcript of the in camera proceeding and, based file, conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding there were no discoverable documents. (people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 330.) 14 iv. disposition the cause is remanded to the trial court to permit the court to consider whether to exercise its discretion to strike defendants section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement under section 1385. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. kim, j. we concur: rubin, p. j. baker, j. 