filed 2/5/19 p. v. shelby ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. howard shelby, jr., defendant and appellant. b289313 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba455000) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. ray g. jurado, judge. affirmed. mark yanis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and nancy lii ladner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * * * * 2 defendant and appellant howard shelby, jr., appeals from his conviction by jury of one count of possession of a controlled substance with a firearm and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon for which he received a three-year state prison sentence. defendantthe prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct during her cross-examination of him. we affirm. factual and procedural background in late january 2017, detective kevin currie of the los angeles police department received a tip about possible drug sales occurring at a 10-unit apartment complex on west 82nd street in the city of los angeles. the alleged activity was occurring in two units located near the back of the complex, one over a couple of days of surveillance at the location, detective currie saw eight different individuals go into the rear apartment, stay for a few minutes and then leave--activity, which in his experience, was consistent with drug trafficking. randy m. worked as an informant for the los angeles police department, and often with detective currie. he had made drug buys as an informant for close to 15 years. randy was compensated for making drug buys, even when he was not successful in completing an attempted purchase. randy admitted he had suffered five prior convictions for burglary, one for receiving stolen property and one for selling marijuana. his last conviction was in 2009. on february 8, 2017, randy worked as an informant for detective currie and went to the apartment complex on west 82nd street to attempt a drug purchase. detective currie told 3 him the two back units were the suspected sales locations. randy was not familiar with defendant and denied ever meeting him, knowing him from the neighborhood or ever being at the apartment complex. outside the apartment complex, randy met a woman who was also going inside to buy drugs. when randy partment, defendant had a plate with . the woman who had walked in with him bought what was on the plate. another man in the apartment directed randy and he was able to make a purchase there, but did not buy any drugs that day from defendant. on february 16, 2017, detective currie had randy return when he entered the apartment, defendant and another man later identified as wayne adams were sitting on the couch. randy detective off-white pieces). the money used for the purchase was marked currency provided by detective currie. randy did not see any guns in the apartment while he was there. he was inside for just a minute or two. approximately 30 minutes later, detective currie and residence. both defendant and mr. adams were detained. during the search, the officers recovered a plate near the couch containing loose pieces of cocaine base, a and methamphetamines, a loaded semiautomatic handgun, a revolver, and ammunition. one of the firearms was found tucked 4 into the couch in the living room. a money$13,990, and a separate amount totaling $218 were also found. in addition, the search oresidence (utility bills), two cell phones, empty baggies and baggies containing what appeared to be narcotics, as well as a digital scale and a razor blade on the living room floor. all of the recovered items were photographed and booked into evidence. defendant was charged by information with four felonies: sale/transportation of controlled substance, cocaine base (health & saf. code,  11352, subd. (a) [count 1]); possession of a controlled substance, cocaine base, with a firearm (health & saf. code,  11370.1, subd. (a) [count 2]); possession for sale of cocaine base (health & saf. code,  11351.5 [count 3]); and, possession of a firearm by a felon (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1) [count 4]). as to counts 1 and 3, it was further alleged that defendant was armed with a firearm during the commission of the offense (pen. code,  12022, subd. (c)), and had suffered a prior conviction for a violation of health and safety code section 11352 (pen. code,  1203.07, subd. (a)(11)). the case proceeded to a jury trial in october 2017. detective currie and randy attested to the above facts concerning the events of february 2017. defendant testified in his own defense. he said he had lived in his apartment on west 82nd street for over seven years and had been working at the same pawn shop for over 20 years. he explained the money found in his apartment was his savings, from work and from betting on sports with friends. defendant did not like using banks because he did not trust them. he admitted to having small quantities of cocaine and marijuana in 5 his home for personal use. he also admitted to having a prior ving sold any drugs since that time. defendant said he allowed many friends, like mr. adams, to stay with him when they were in need of a place to stay and they often left items in his home. he denied knowledge of the quantity of cocaine recovered from his home after his arrest. defendant also admitted he had a gun for self-one in his neighborhood to avoid being a victim. defendant said he believed the gun was no longer in his home as of february 2017 because it was inoperable. with respect to randy, defendant said they were not friends but he had seen him around the neighborhood for years. . . . randy items, including a car radio, in the parking lot of the pawn shop where he worked. defendant testified to seeing randy around his apartment 2017, and sometime specifically a day or two before february 16. randy at one point, defendant told randy to leave and quit during this same time period, defendant also believed the complex was under police surveillance because someone else who lived there had been arrested by detective currie. there were rumors that randy during his testimony, defendant repeatedly had difficulty recalling dates and distinguishing what took place on february 8 as opposed to february 16, 2017. however, he said that randy and he did not know what they were talking about. defendant 6 said when he realized who randy was, he told him to leave his home. the jury found defendant guilty on count 2 (possession of a controlled substance with a firearm), and on count 4 (possession of a firearm by a felon). the jury was unable to reach a verdict as to counts 1 and 3, and the court declared a mistrial. counts 1 and 3 were subsequently dismissed. rdict request to proceed in propria persona pursuant to faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 was granted. the court sentenced defendant to a three-year state prison term calculated as follows: a midterm of three years on count 2 (the base count), and a concurrent two-year midterm on count 4. the court awarded defendant 196 days of custody credits and imposed various statutory fees. this appeal followed. discussion the sole issue before us is whether the prosecutor committed reversible error during her cross-examination of defendant. the applicable federal and state standards regarding prosecutorial misconduct are well established. a prosecutors . . . intemperate behavior violates the federal constitution when it comprises a pattern of conduct so egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. [citations.] conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 7 819; accord, people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 679 (fuiava).) during his direct testimony, defendant testified that he saw randy loitering around his apartment complex a day or two before defendant was arrested on february 16, 2017, and that randy still arounon cross-examination, the prosecutor asked if that happened february. the following colloquy, of which defendant complains, then ensued. prosecutor]: okay. and would it surprise you to actually learn that [randy] was actually in the hospital for the entire first part of february? defense counsel]: objection. assumes facts not in evidence. the court: sustained. defense counsel]: move to strike. the court: prosecutor]: are you aware that [randy] was actually in the hospital? defense counsel]: objection. defendant]: no. defense counsel]: same objection. the court: overruled. prosecutor]: no? are you aware [randy] was in the hospital at the beginning of february? defendant] defendant argues there was no evidence in the record that randy had been in the hospital. therefore, the prosecutor in 8 essence presented unsworn testimony through her questioning about facts outside of the record intended solely to undermine show bad faith, but that the bad faith of the prosecutor can be inferred by the fact she continued to ask variations of the we are not persuaded. first, the prosecution presented evidence that randy 8, 2017, and then again on the february 16 when defendant was arrested. defendant twice said he thought the day when randy made the comment to him was a day or two before, or a couple of days before, his arrest on the february 16. defendant also expressed difficulty remembering specific dates and then confirmed on cross-examination that the comment occurred in randy had testimony on this issue. it certainly did not result in a trial so fundamentally unfair as to amount to a denial of due process. moreover, even assuming, solely for the sake of argument, that it was error for the prosecutor to ask the question in the manner she did, defendant cannot show prejudice. (fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 679 it is reasonably probable that without the alleged misconduct an outcome more favorable to the defendant would have resulted here, the testimony about and by randy was relevant only to counts 1 and 3 regarding the sale of cocaine base, and the jury hung on these two counts. on these two counts reflects the individual jurors were 9 independently assessing the evidence and were not unfairly coerced by any alleged misconduct into returning guilty verdicts. defendant was convicted only on count 2 for possession of cocaine base with a firearm and count 4 for possession of a firearm by a felon. dnstituted significant proof in support of those offenses. defendant admitted to having possession of cocaine in his home, as well as having a firearm for protection. defendant also stipulated to having a prior felony conviction. as already explained above, the challenged colloquy with the prosecutor was not a significant . to the extent it was relevant to his credibility, we do not believe it was more significant than ruary 8 and february 16, 2017, and his admissions. further, the issue was not argued or highlighted in any way during closing argument. and, the court instructed with calcrim no. 222 which includes the following language: the attorneys say is evidence. . . . do not assume that something is true just because one of the attorneys asked a defendant has not shown it is reasonably probable he would have obtained a more favorable outcome had the objected to colloquy not occurred. disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. grimes, acting p. j. we concur: stratton, j. wiley, j. 