filed 2/28/19 p. v. parker ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. larry raynard parker, defendant and appellant. b289170 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga099186) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, teri schwartz, judge. affirmed. richard b. lennon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, joseph p. lee and a. scott hayward, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 on august 30, 2016, larry raynard parker pleaded no contest to a charge of assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(4).)1 the trial court sentenced parker to three years in prison and suspended imposition of the sentence, placing parker on probation for three years. while on probation, parker was arrested for lewd conduct ( 314) and disturbing the peace ( 415). at a hearing on february 14, 2018, the trial court found parker to be in violation of his probation and set the matter for a probation violation sentencing hearing. at a march 29, 2018 hearing, the court sentenced parker to the previously imposed but suspended three-year sentence. parker contends the trial court erred in denying his request to represent himself (a faretta2 motion) at the probation violation sentencing hearing. finding no error, we affirm. background as outlined below, throughout the proceedings in this case, parker had a history of making and withdrawing faretta motions, as well as interrupting and arguing with the court. at the outset of the july 18, 2016 preliminary hearing on the assault charge, defense counsel informed the trial court (judge terry a. bork) parker wanted to represent himself. after defense counsel and parker conferred off the record, counsel 1 further statutory references are to the penal code. 2 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 3 at the next hearing, the august 1, 2016 arraignment hearing before judge dorothy l. shubin, parker made and withdrew another request to represent himself, as indicated on . at the beginning of the following hearing on august 30, 2016, defense counsel informed the trial court (judge shubin) parker wanted to represent himself at the trial on the assault charge. as counsel was stating for the record why he advised parker against representing himself, parker interrupted and the court admonished parker to refrain from interrupting and to think about the reasons it might be difficult to represent himself while incarcerated. the court took a recess so parker could review and fill out a faretta waiver form. during the recess, the prosecutor made a plea offer, which defense counsel discussed with parker, and parker indicated he wished to accept. back on the record, parker withdrew his request to represent himself, and the prosecutor began taking the plea. as the prosecutor and the court reviewed with parker the terms of probation, parker argued with them about the term asked the prosecutor if he drank alcohol and told the prosecuto ignoring these comments, the prosecutor explained to parker if he did not accept the plea he would remain in jail for at least another month until his case went to trial. parker indicated he wanted to proceed to trial, commenting, 4 defense counsel conferred with parker and informed the trial court parker did not want to continue with the plea and wanted a hearing on his request to represent himself. the prosecutor comments, the trial court broke in and addressed parker, as interrupt when someone else is speaking. as i explained earlier, if you wish to represent yourself, there are certain rules of conduct which all attorneys and all pro pers are expected to 3 the trial court then reviewed with parker the information on the faretta waiver form he had filled out. when the court asked parker if he had any questions about his constitutional white he understood himyself to prison. . . . and get it over with and avoid the rush. later in the proceeding, must not abuse the dignity of the court. the court may terminate your right to self-representation in the event that you engage in serious misconduct or obstruct the conduct and progress of the confirmed he understood the admonishment. as the court continued reviewing the information on the faretta waiver form, parker interrupted the court, stating he wanted to accept the plea offer. after the court completed its 3 the court reporter did not transcribe any interruption by parker at this juncture. 5 withdrew his request to represent himself and entered the negotiated plea. after his arrest for lewd conduct and disturbing the peace, parker (who was in custody) appeared at a hearing on february 13, 2018, and informed the trial court (judge teri schwartz)4 he was representing himself in that misdemeanor case, as well as two other misdemeanor cases. the court set a probation revocation hearing for the following day. at the february 14, 2018 probation revocation hearing, parker gave up his pro. per. status and accepted representation from the alternate public defender. the prosecutor called two witnesses regarding the allegations of lewd conduct and disturbing the peace. when the first witness testified that parker pulled down his pants and boxer shorts in front of her, shortly thereafter, the same witness testified parker exposed himself for two minutes, and parker statedparker he would be removed from the courtroom if he continued to make comments while witnesses testified. parker apologized. afs by counsel, the court found parker to be in violation of his probation and set the matter for a probation violation sentencing hearing. at the outset of the march 29, 2018 sentencing hearing, defense counsel informed the trial court parker wanted to 4 judge schwartz made the ruling parker challenges on appealthe denial of his request to represent himself at the probation violation sentencing hearing. we included the above conduct at other hearings is germane to our review of the challenged ruling. 6 represent himself. the court placed the matter on second call so parker could fill out a faretta waiver form. when it recalled the matter, the trial court noted parker waffled at previous hearings about whether he wanted to represent himself. parker stated the court told parker it would find his faretta motion timely if he was ker if he wanted to the court stated it was attempting to convey to him that it was not going to continue got to keep coming back and forth down the court explained to parker that he did not need to come back because he could be sentenced that day. parker asked, the court called a recess and asked defense counsel to confer with parker about what the court was asking him. after the recess, , while the court was hearing other matters. as defense counsel summarized the discussion that occurred off the record, parker interrupted to correct counsel on the name of a services provider a break to confer with parker. after the break, defense counsel confirmed parker was ready to proceed with sentencing. the trial court inquired whether parker would be represented by counsel, and another break was taken. the court then asked parker if he wanted representation from the alternate public defender, and parker 7 the court explained: think you are deserving of or you wish to have pro per status, a hearing on that. [] what is it you represent yourself at this late stage in the game. but if you wish to represent yourse parker responded affirmatively. as the trial court was explaining to parker the maximum sentence in the matter, the court asked the prosecutor for clarification. during their discussion, parker interjected, three years [for the suspended sentence on the felony assault] ccurred: yourself; right? question. do you understand that the maximum sentence you 8 could receive is three years on the felony and one year on the misdemeanor? ecutive. faretta form and initialed it and dated and signed it; is that correct? to have an attorney represent you but you may represent ineffective assistance of counsel at the sentencing. [] do you understand that? ll stick with this sucker right here then. with the requisite amount of impulse control and decorum. and given his earlier outbursts and interruptions of the court while the court was on the bench conducting business, i will find that he is not entitled to represent himself at this proceeding. so [the parker continued to disrupt the sentencing hearing, think you are anyway?prosecutor could not remember something b 9 courtroom if he continued to interrupt. the trial court sentenced parker to three years in prison, the previously imposed but suspended sentence for the felony assault. discussion parker contends the trial court erred in denying his request to represent himself at the probation violation sentencing hearing. to proceed without counsel when he voluntarily and intelligently faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at p. 807, italics added.) trial court must grant a defendants request for self-representation if three conditions are met. first, the defendant must be mentally competent, and must make his request knowingly and intelligently, having been apprised of the dangers of self-representation. [citations.] second, he must make his request unequivocally. [citations.] third, he must make his request within a reasonable time before trial.people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 729.) we independently review the entire record to determine whether a defendant made a knowing, intelligent, and unequivocal request for self-representation. (people v. dent (2003) 30 cal.4th 213, 218; people v. watts (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 621, 629.)5 5 -representation was unknowing, unintelligent, or equivocal, and the parties do not address these factors in their appellate briefing. disruptive behavior, and that is the issue the parties address. 10 in some instances, however, we review the decision for abuse of discretion, as a trial c-(people v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 735.) -representation is not a license to abuse the dignity of the faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at p. 834, fn. 46.) a -representation must people v. watts, supra, 173 cal.app.4th at p. 629.) a trial court must undertake the task of deciding whether a defendant is and will remain so disruptive, obstreperous, disobedient, disrespectful or obstructionist in his or her actions or words as to preclude the exercise of the right to self-representationpeople v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 735.) aware that the extent of a defendants disruptive behavior may not be fully evident from the cold record, and that one reason for according deference to the faretta request at the sentencing hearing was equivocal and could have been denied on that basis. -representation made in passing anger or frustration, an ambivalent motion, or one made for the purpose of delay or to frustrate the orderly administration of people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 23.) the last statement parker made before the court denied his faretta request demonstrates his ambivalence about the request and the role anger and frustration played: with this sucker [the deputy alternate public defender] right here then.ambivalence about self-representation, as he made and withdrew his many faretta motions. 11 trial court is that it is in the best position to judge defendants demeanoribid.) se of discretion in deciding whether to deny a motion for self-representation based ibid.) there was no abuse of discretion here. parker demonstrated an inability or unwillingness (people v. watts, supra, 173 cal.app.4th at p. 630.) he continued to interrupt the court and make disrespectful comments, even after being admonished by both judge shubin and judge schwartz. ibid.) thus, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in determining parker would continue to abuse the dignity of the court if permitted to represent himself. could not have informed [him] of the consequences of his outbursts and demeanor, and why possible court sanctions could not have controlleparker was advised of the consequences of his conduct. at the august 30, 2016 plea hearing, judge shubin explained to him that his disruptive behavior would disqualify him from representing himself. before denying the faretta request at the probation violation sentencing hearing, judge schwartz informed parker that if he wanted to an inability or unwillingness to control himself and conform to now believes could have controlled his behavior. 12 the not only his interruptions and disrespectful comments on the record, but also -the-record-discussion with defense counsel. accordingly, the trial disqualified him from representing himself. we accord deference record does not demonstrate abuse of discretion. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. bendix, j. 