filed 10/16/18 p. v. aquino ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. juan carlos aquino, defendant and appellant. b289438 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba317136) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, laura f. priver, judge. affirmed. david m. thompson, under appointment of the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and steven d. matthews, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________ 2 pursuant to a negotiated plea agreement, juan carlos aquino pleaded no contest in 2007 to two counts of second degree robbery and admitted he had personally used a firearm in the commission of those offenses. during the plea hearing that aquino could lose his legal residency and be deported as a consequence of his plea. in 2018, following completion of his state prison sentence and placement in federal custody on an immigration hold, aquino moved pursuant to penal code section 1473.71 to vacate his convictions, arguing his trial counsel was constitutionally ineffective in failing to warn him that deportation was a mandatory, rather than simply a possible, consequence of his plea. the trial court denied the motion on the and, in any event, aquino had not shown prejudice. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. negotiated plea agreement aquino, a mexican citizen, had been living in the united states as a legal permanent resident in 2007 when he was arrested and charged with nine counts of second degree robbery with specially alleged firearm-use enhancements. on the first day of his trial, with voir dire of prospective jurors set to begin, the court settlement negotiations. myers stated he had advised aquino of the substantial evidence against him and had urged him to accept a negotiated plea agreement that, at the time it was offered, would have resulted in a 10-year, rather than a possible 49-year, state prison term. myers told the court that aquino had refused the offer, , and the offer 1 statutory references are to this code. 3 had since been withdrawn. the latest offer by the people was a 12-year prison term in exchange for a plea to two counts and admission of a firearm-use enhancement allegation. aquino had again refused the proffered deal in favor of continued the court directed aquino to consult with his counsel off the record before announcing whether he was ready to begin the trial. when they were finished, myers expressed frustration to the court that aquino continued to think there was some room for further negotiation. he urged the court to ask aquino directly whether he wanted to accept a plea. the court told is hard. this is not easy. i am not trying to back you in the corner. i am trying to give you the parameters, the borderline of the area you have to deal with. this is the deal. i understand it is 12 years. i understand it remains open, myers and aquino again conferred off the record. this time, myers informed the court aquino now wished to plead no contest to two counts of second degree robbery and admit the truth of the firearm-use allegation. asked by the court plea bargain, aquino answered, yes. the prosecutor then questioned aquino as to the factual basis for his plea. asked whether he admitted to personally using a gun, aquino replied that he did not understand. myers explained personal use of a firearm did not mean he had discharged the firearm. the record does not indicate aquino responded to myers. apparently exasperated by ambivalence or silence, myers stopped further colloquy and told 4 aquino, [you are] making the aquino repeated that he did not understand; he believed he was entering a plea. the court again ordered aquino to consult with his counsel. when they finished, the court stated, mr. through with this offer. he would rather have his trial. i myers, apparently directing his comments to aquino, you do want to take the offer? then, you have to answer the questions appropriately. when i tell you to say something, you say it in order to get it, understand? . . . i am sick of this told aquino, you to do anything. when you say, yes, i want to accept the offer, i have to be convinced. . . . right now i am not going to force you it, that is fine. if you do want to do it, i need to be convinced that you are doing this willingly and voluntarily. aquino stated he wanted to proceed with the plea. the prosecutor then if you are not a citizen of the united states, your plea here today in this case will result in your being denied entry, denied naturalization, deported and deniein response, the following colloquy occurred: [aquino]: i have a question. the court: go ahead. [aquino]: i have a green card. is that going toare they going to revoke it? mr. myers: 5 [aquino]: well, what are the chances? mr. myers: the court: i think we have to be more explicit on that. mr. myers: well, i am telling him that the consequence of entering [the] plea might be that he loses his status here. [] . . . [] the court: do you [aquino] have any questions about that? [aquino]: um, no. it is going to affect me, so. the court: yes, they are telling you if you have a green card, if you enter into this plea, it may result in your deportation, loss of citizenship, loss of the right to be here. that is a consequence. do you understand that? do you have any questions about that? no? later, after the prosecutor asked aquino more questions directed to the factual basis for his again. i may have been a little unclear on the immigration consequences. . . . one of the consequences [of your plea] might be you may be deported from or denied entry or denied naturalization under the laws of the united states. do you after further nonimmigration related questions and admonishments, the court accep 6 2. ; the denial of his request at his sentencing hearing aquino, representing himself, moved to withdraw his plea, arguing he did not know or understand the offenses to which he pleaded because his attorney had not provided him with police reports. the court denied the motion. in accordance with the negotiated plea agreement, the court sentenced aquino to an aggregate term of 12 years in state prison. aquino obtained a certificate of probable cause and appealed, arguing the trial court abused its discretion in denying his request, made on the first day of trial, to represent himself. people v. aquino (mar. 18, 2009, b206926) [nonpub. opn.].) 3. s for writ of habeas corpus on may 18, 2010 aquino filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus in the trial court alleging several instances of ineffective assistance of his trial and appellate counsel. among other things, aquino argued that deportation was a mandatory, rather than a possible, consequence of his plea amounted to ineffective assistance of counsel in violation of the sixth amendment. the trial court denied the petition. on august 13, 2010 aquino filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus in this court making the same arguments as he had in the trial court. on august 19, 2010 we summarily denied the petition. 4. ns on january 10, 2018 aquino, representing himself, moved pursuant to section 1473.7 to vacate his conviction on the ground 7 consequences of his plea was both deficient and prejudicial. on january 29, 2018 the trial court appointed counsel for aquino; filed a supplemental section 1473.7 motion. on march 28, 2018, following a hearing, the trial court the immigration consequences of his plea. in addition, the court ruled, aquino had not demonstrated prejudice. the court found aquinoassertion that he would not have taken the plea had he known he would be deported not credible. aquino filed both a petition for writ of mandate and a 1473.7 motion. on july 3, 2018 we summarily denied the writ petition. (see  1473.7, subd. (f) [order denying section 1473.7 motion is appealable].) discussion 1. governing law and standard of review section 1473.7, subdivision (a), a conviction or sentence when [t]he conviction or sentence is legally invalid due to a prejudicial error damaging the moving knowingly accept the actual or potential adverse immigration con the moving party bears the burden of proving entitlement to relief by a preponderance of the evidence. ( 1473.7, subd. (a)(1).) if the 8 motion is granted, the court must allow the moving party to withdraw the plea. ( 1473.7, subd. (e)(3).)2 to demonstrate that counsel was constitutionally ineffective, a (lee v. united states (2017) __ u.s. __ [137 s.ct. 1958, 1964, 198 l.ed.2d 476]; accord, strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 688, 692 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674].) ordinarily, in connection with ineffective assistance of counsel claims, prejudice is established by demonstrating a reasonable probability the defendant would have received a more favorable strickland, at p. 692.) however, performance led him or her to accept a guilty plea rather than go 2 section 1473.7, which became effective january 1, 2017 (stats. 2016, ch. 739,  1), was intended to provide individuals no longer imprisoned or restrained, and thus not able to utilize the remedy of habeas corpus, a vehicle to vacate a conviction upon either (1) proof of error that prejudicially affectknowledge or understanding of the immigration consequences of his or her plea or (2) proof of newly discovered evidence of actual assem. bill no. 813 (2015-though persons not presently restrained of liberty may seek certain types of relief from the disabilities of a conviction, the writ of habeas corpus is or sentence]; people v. perez (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 818, 827 [same].) 9 to trial, the relevant prejudice inquiry is whether there is a defendant] would not have pleaded guilty and insisted on going to lee, at p. 1964; accord, hill v. lockhart (1985) 474 u.s. 52, 59 [106 s.ct. 366, 88 l.ed.2d 203].) a section 1473.7 motion based on a violation of the constitutional right to effective assistance of counsel presents a mixed question of fact and law subject to de novo review. (people v. tapia (2018) 26 cal.app.5th 942, 950; people v. olvera (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 1112, 1116; people v. ogunmowo (2018) 23 cal.app.5th 67, 77; cf. in re resendiz (2001) 25 cal.4th 230, 249 (resendiz) [ineffective assistance of counsel claim alleged in habeas corpus petition to withdraw plea presented a mixed question of law and fact].) under this standard, we defer to the evidence, but decide independently whether the facts deficient. (resendiz, at p. 249; olvera, at p. 1116; ogunmowo, at p. 76; cf. people v. gonzalez (sept. 27, 2018, d073436) __cal.app.5th __ [2018 cal.app. lexis 868] [affirming trial s that defense counsel was credible and defendant was not were supported by substantial evidence].)3 3 the people assert for the first time on appeal that aquino, parole at the time he filed his section 1473.7 motion in january ( 1473.7; see people v. villa (2009) 45 cal.4th 1063, 1069 [individual on parole is considered people v. cruz-lopez (2018) 10 2. obligation to advise on the immigration consequences of a plea before and after padilla v. kentucky a. padilla v. kentucky in padilla v. kentucky (2010) 559 u.s. 356, 370 [130 s.ct. 1473, 176 l.ed.2d 284] (padilla) the united states supreme court held that criminal obligations include properly advising his or her client of the immigration consequences of a guilty or no contest plea. the court recognized that federal immigration law is often complex; many times, deportation as a consequence of a conviction is neither clear nor certain. in those cases, the court held, the most the sixth amendment may require of defense counsel concerning immigration consequences is a warning that a criminal conviction people v. patterson (2017) 2 cal.5th 885, 897-898, quoting padilla, at p. 369.) however, when, as was the case in padilla, federal succinct, clear, and explicitthat a conviction will result in deportation, the sixth amendment curately advise his or her client of that consequence before the client enters a guilty patterson, at p. 898, quoting padilla, at pp. 368-369.) prior to padilla the federal and state courts had been divided to advise on the 27 cal.app.5th 212, 221 [section 1473.7 did not apply to defendant who was on supervised probation].) aquino averred in his petition that he had completed his sentence and was no longer in state custody. the response that aquino was likely on parole in january 2018 is insufficient, without more, t 1473.7. 11 immigration consequences of a conviction. a majority of courts had concluded no such obligation existed at all. (see chaidez v. united states (2013) 568 u.s. 342, 352 [133 s.ct. 1103, 185 l.ed.2d 149] [prior to padilla state and federal courts collateral consequences, including deportation the few courts that had recognized ineffective assistance of counsel claims involving immigration advice limited their holdings to affirmative misstatements by counsel, declining to reach the question whether a mere failure to warn of immigration consequences could also result in a finding of ineffective assistance. (see padilla, supra, 559 u.s. at p. 369 [citing cases]; resendiz, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 240.) indeed sometimes the most important partof the penalty that may be imposed on noncitizen defendants who plead guilty to specified padilla, supra, 559 u.s. at p. 364), the padilla court found no justification for application of the collateral consequences doctrine to bar ineffective assistance of counsel claims and no reason to distinguish between affirmative misstatement of the immigration consequences of a conviction, on the one hand, and a failure-to-warn, on the other. (see id. at p. 370 [finding no relevant difference s of ineffective assistance of counsel claims]; chaidez v. united states, supra, 568 u.s. at p. 352 [padilla 12 as both aquino and the attorney general acknowledge, padilla is not retroactive. (chaidez v. united states, supra, 568 u.s. at p. 358 final prior to padilla .) ineffective assistance of counsel claim is governed by the sixth amendment obligation as it existed at the time of plea in 2007. (see people v. olvera, supra, 24 cal.app.5th at p. alleging ineffective assistance of counsel at the time he entered a plea in 2005 was governed by pre-padilla interpretations of the scope of the sixth amendment].) b. before padilla unlike a majority of jurisdictions, california had rejected the collateral consequences doctrine as a bar to ineffective assistance of counsel claims for immigration-related advice well before padilla. (see resendiz, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 240 [the attorney general, relying primarily on out-of-state and federal court decisions, urges us to announce a categorical bar to immigration-based ineffective assistance claims. . . . [w]e decline .) observing that bargaining and pleading are critical stages in the criminal process at which a defendant is entitled, under both the sixth amendment to the federal constitution and article i, section 15 of the california constitution, to the effective assistance and that deportation could be more significant to the defendant than the risk of a longer prison sentence if the defendant were to go to trial, the supreme court in 2001 in resendiz held that ce regarding immigration consequences can 13 in certain circumstances constitute ineffective assistance of resendiz, at p. 240.) in resendiz the defendant, a legal permanent resident of the united states, asked his counsel whether his plea to a drug trafficking charge, an aggravated felony, would affect his legal residency. habeas corpus, his counsel had assured him at the time he entered his plea except that he would not be able to become a united states citizen. in a declaration submitted by the attorney general in writ of habeas corpus, the he did not remember what he had actually told the defendant but that it was his custom and tell these clients that i make the assumption that the federal government is always wanting to deport non-citizen felons. i explain to them they should assume the government has a policy id. at p. 238.) the resendiz court began its analysis by addressing the conflict in the evidence concerning representations. had defense counsel advised the defendant in accordance with his custom and practice that he should assume he would be deported, the court suggested such an advisement would amendment. (resendiz, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 252.) however, the court continued, it need not actually decide that question. even if counsel had affirmatively misadvised the defendant, reversal was not required because the defendant failed to 14 demonstrate prejudice, that is, that he would have rejected the plea had he been properly warned. (id. at pp. 253-254.) the resendiz mere failure to advise could also constitute ineffective assistance.resendiz, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 240.) because the issue was not squarely before it, the resendiz court also declined consequences, though it expressly doubted the sixth amendment pleading defendants, to investigate immigration consequences or id. at pp. 249-250.) aquino contends that a question left unaddressed in resendiz, and presented in his petitionwhether a warning that deportation was a possibility when it was clear that deportation was mandatory constituted ineffective assistance of counsel was squarely decided by the court of appeal two decades prior to resendiz in people v. soriano (1987) 194 cal.app.3d 1470. like aquino, the defendant in soriano specifically inquired of his counsel whether he would lose his status as a legal permanent resident if he pleaded guilty to assault with a firearm. in his declaration submitted with his petition for writ of habeas corpus, filed together with his appeal, the defendant averred his counsel had assured him he would not be deported, and only after receiving that assurance did he agree to plead guilty. the declaration was more equivocal. she stated she had advised the defendant if he pleaded guilty. she also conceded she had not investigated the immigration consequences of his plea and had not understood he could have avoided deportation had she been able to negotiate a slightly lesser sentence. quoting commentary from the 15 american bar association standards for criminal justice, the court of appeal observed that, when specific question concerning collateral consequences (as where the defendant inquires about the possibility of deportation), (soriano, at p. 1481.) a warning thalegal status was, the court held, insufficient. by own admission she merely warned defendant that his plea might have immigration consequences. had she researched the matter she would have known that his guilty plea, absent a recommendation from the sentencing court against deportation, made him deportable . . . id. at p. 1482.) c. aquino has failed to demonstrate prejudice, an essential element of his ineffective assistance of counsel claim relying on soriano aquino contends that mandatory deportation as the consequence of his no-contest plea to second degree robbery with a firearm-use enhancement was clear (a characterization of federal immigration law the attorney general disputes), and his counsel would have discovered as much if he had done any research. and, aquino continues, while the resendiz court, which did not mention soriano, strongly suggested the sixth amendment did not impose on defense counsel a blanket obligation to research the federal immigration consequences of a criminal conviction, neither did the court foreclose the idea that such an obligation would exist when, as here and in soriano, the defendant had expressly inquired about it. 16 at the threshold we have some doubt whether defense advisement at the time of the 2007 plea constituted ineffective assistance of counsel under then-governing law as expressed in resendiz, supra, 25 cal.4th 230. unlike in resendiz, myers did not affirmatively misrepresent the plea. (resendiz, at p. 240; see people v. ogunmowo, supra, 23 cal.app.5th at p. 77 immigration consequences as a result of a guilty plea in a drug trafficking casewhen the law states otherwiseis objectively 1989].) nor are we convinced the resendiz court would have agreed with sorianourther research of the immigration consequences of the plea was required to satisfy . (see resendiz, at pp. 249-250.)4 4 people v. espinoza (sept. 28, 2018, e068282) __ cal.app.5th ___ [2018 cal.app. lexis 875]), which constitutionally inadequate when federal immigration law made clear that deportation was mandatory, is misplaced. the espinoza was entered two years after padilla and is governed by post-padilla standards. in addition, the court in espinoza identified a variety of factors that corroborated statements in the espinoza, at pp. __.) as we discuss in the text below, the corroborating evidence required to upend a plea (see lee v. united states, supra, 137 s.ct. at p. 1967) is absent here. 17 certainly, myers would have done better, as the resendiz court suggested, to have advised aquino not only that deportation was a possible consequence of his plea, but also that he should assume that consequence would occur. (resendiz, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 252; see people v. olvera, supra, 24 cal.app.5th at p. 1116 [counsel was not deficient when it warned defendant in 2005 of possibility of deportation as a need not decide whether counsel was constitutionally deficient. even if statement that were too equivocal a response to specific inquiry to pass sixth amendment muster in 2007, aquino has failed to demonstrate the requisite prejudice to be entitled to the relief he seeks. aquinoassertion in his motion, filed without a supporting declaration, that he would not have entered the plea had he known deportation was inevitable is belied by the record. (see lee v. united states, supra, not upset a plea solely because of post hoc assertions from a deficiencies. judges should instead look to contemporaneous evidence to substanti; see also resendiz, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. assertion he would not have pled guilty if given competent advice in re alvernaz (1992) 2 cal.4th 924, 938 [same].) the prosecutor unambiguously warned aquino his plea deportation. (cf. people v. perez (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 818, 830 [defendant failed to prove he was entitled to relief under 18 section 1473.7: this was not a situation where the court informed a defendant that there was would face deportation. [citation.] the court below left no doubt . . that admonition prompted aquino to inquire whether his green card would be revoked. defense counsel told him it could be. given the opportunity for further inquiry and discussion on the effect of his plea on his legal residency, aquino did more than simply decline that invitation. he expressly acknowledged the affect me, so . . .and then immediately went ahead and entered his plea. in contrast to the defendant in lee who insisted at the time of the plea that loss of his lawful permanent residency in the united states would affect his decision to plead guilty (see lee, at p. he known it would lead to deportation is backed by substantial ]), aquino made clear that the adverse effect of his plea on his legal residency was not a decisive factor to his entry of the plea. under lee v. united states, supra, 137 s.ct. at page 1967, in re alvarnez, supra, 2 cal.4th at page 938 and resendiz, supra, 25 cal.4th at page 253, bare assertion that he would not have accepted the plea if he had been properly advised, without more, is legally insufficient to demonstrate prejudice. the trial court did not err in concluding there is no reasonable probability that aquino would have declined the plea and gone to trial had his counsel told him more specifically that deportation was a mandatory consequence of his plea. 19 disposition vacate his convictions is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. segal, j. 