filed 11/4/19 p. v. paniagua ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ariel paniagua, defendant and appellant. b289253 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la081995) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas s. rubinson, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. david andreasen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general and allison h. chung, deputy attorney general for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction ariel paniagua appeals from the judgment entered after a jury convicted him of murder, attempted murder, shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, and possession of a firearm by a felon, for which the trial court sentenced him to an aggregate prison term of 268 years four months to life. paniagua contends (1) the trial court violated his constitutional rights by revoking his in propria persona privileges in jail without cause, (2) the trial court erred in instructing on attempted murder, (3) the trial court erred in failing to give a unanimity instruction on the charge of possession of a firearm by a felon, (4) ton his murder conviction and the sentence imposed for his conviction of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle erroneously reflected a true finding on the related gang allegation, and (6) we should remand to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike a prior serious felony conviction for which the court imposed sentence enhancements. regarding (3), we conclude that the trial court erred in not giving the unanimity instruction and that, although the error was harmless regarding the conviction for the substantive offense of possession of a firearm by a felon, it was not harmless with regard to the true finding on the gang allegation for that offense. we therefore reverse that true finding. we also agree with (5) and therefore remand for the trial court to correct its minute order and the unauthorized sentence imposed for the conviction on the offense of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle. and because we also agree with (6), we remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the serious felony prior 3 conviction for the purpose of sentence enhancement. otherwise, we affirm. factual and procedural history a. the october 6, 2015 shooting on october 6, 2015 paniagua and hubaldo martinez, members of the bryant street criminal street gang, were riding s car in an area of canoga park controlled by a rival gang, the canoga park gang. another, unidentified man and joselin the car. martinez eventually stopped the car alongside victor . paniagua got out of the car and asked castillo if he was associated with the canoga park gang. as paniagua asked, he lifted his shirt to show across his chest. he was also wearing a hat with a bryant street. rom bryant street. i got a gun. castillo said that he did not and that h castillo walked away, and paniagua got back into the car. martinez drove the group in his car to a nearby marijuana dispensary. outside the dispensary he pulled behind a white car occupied by three men: israel ponce, eduardo renderos, and jovani pantoja. according to cuellar, paniagua thought he saw one of the men wore (none did). paniagua got out of martinand started shooting at the white car. two bullets hit the trunk of the car, one of them entering the backseat, where it struck pantoja in the shoulder. another bullet hit a car parked farther 4 down the street, killing its occupant, eduardo rebolledo. the white car drove away, as did martinez. police detectives recovered seven .40-caliber casings from the scene. b. the october 13, 2015 shooting on october 13, 2015 lisette ruedas was driving with her friend natalie garcia. about one block from the house where cuellar lived, they saw a man later identified as paniagua pull a gun from his shorts and fire two or three shots at a car parked across the street from him. that car then sped off, and paniagua ran up the street in the opposite direction. ruedas and garcia called 911 and drove around the block, catching sight shortly after, police officer jennifer poepke found paniagua crouched against a nearby retaining wall and arrested him. about two feet away officer peopke found a chrome, semiautomatic, nine-millimeter handgun with one round in the chamber and three more in its 12-round magazine. a police detective who responded to the scene for gunshot residue, and the results were positive. another responding detective had ruedas and garcia view paniagua in a field show-up, and ruedas and garcia identified paniagua as the shooter. at the scene of the shooting, detectives recovered three nine-millimeter shell casings that tests showed were fired from the gun recovered near paniagua. 5 c. the trial the people charged paniagua with murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a);1 count one), three counts of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder ( 664, 187, subd. (a); counts two through four), two counts of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle ( 246; counts five and seven), and possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1); count nine). counts seven and nine related to the shooting on october 13, 2015, the remaining counts to the shooting on october 6. the people alleged that paniagua committed all the offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members, within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1); that in committing the offenses charged in counts one through five he personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (d); and that in committing the offense charged in count seven he personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.5, subdivision (a). the people also alleged paniagua had a prior conviction for a felony that was a serious felony within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and a prior serious or violent felony within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subd. (b), 1170.12), and had served a prison term within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). paniagua initially represented himself in the proceedings, but after revocation of his in propria persona (pro per) privileges in jail, he accepted representation by court-appointed counsel. the case went to trial before a jury in september 2017. paniagua 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 6 testified in his defense, denying he was involved in the shootings in question or committed any of the charged offenses. the jury found paniagua guilty on all counts, the firearm allegations true for all counts, and the gang allegations true for all counts except count seven. paniagua admitted the prior felony conviction allegations and the prior prison term allegation. the trial court sentenced him to an aggregate prison term of 268 years four months to life, not including various terms the court imposed and stayed. paniagua timely appealed. discussion a. the trial court did not err in revoking pro per privileges 1. security risks, and the trial court revokes his pro per privileges in april 2016 paniagua waived his right to court-appointed counsel and began representing himself. when he did so, he acknowledged the superior court of los angeles county, local rules, rule 8.42 (rule 8.42) sets forth act as their own attorney at the los angeles county jail must that rule delineates an in pro per privileges, such as use of the law library and its telephone, the right to have someone act as a legal messenger, and the right to accumulate legal materials, including court documents and legal correspondence. pro per privileges has an affirmative duty to exercise the privileges in such a manner as not to infringe upon the exercise of pro per 7 privileges by other inmates,it cautions that repeated violations of the rules or threats to the safety of inmates or staff may result in loss of pro per privileges. (rule 8.42(d)(1).) the rule further provides that ff may apply for an order modifying or revoking some or all of an pro per privileges or status for causesets forth the procedure for doing so. (rule 8.42(g).) as an inmate with pro per privileges, paniagua was housed which permitted inmates while housed in module 2500, paniagua engaged in numerous and often violent acts of misconduct, culminating in a february 2017 incident where he -on-answered a request to turn around and place his hands behind and tried to incite other inmates to fight deputy personnel.the following day, in compliance with the procedures set forth in rule 8.42, the paniagua it was requesting revocation of his pro per privileges. and the next day, after an administrative hearing pursuant to wilson v. superior court (1978) 21 cal.3d 816 (wilson), a hearing officer revoked privileges for cause.2 as grounds pro per privileges, the hearing officer cited his olence and jail rule violations, which the officer found present[ed] a security and 2 on appeal paniagua appears to construe, as we do, the one terminating all rights delineated , although paniagua sometimes fails to distinguish between those rights and others rule 8.42 provides 8 safety concern for the sh in addition to the february 2017 incident, the officer considered other incidents described by s deputies in written reports: in january 2017 paniagua was in the law library when he was not supposed to be and, when confronted by a deputy, [ly] disresperefusing to return to his cell until other deputies arrived, handcuffed him, and escorted him to his cell; in january 2017 a deputy, while retrieving inmates from module 2500 for their law library time, caught paniagua leaving the cell of another inmate, discovered a shank in found (among other contraband) a four-inch piece of metal used to sharpen the shank; in october 2016 paniagua and four other inmates in module 2500 attacked another inmate there, giving him a which caused the victim to give up his pro per status to avoid such altercations; in july 2016 utside learned he had discovered a way to open his cell gate, and were told by paniagulife. and in november 2015 (before moving to module 2500) paniagua and three other inmates beat up another inmate. the trial court reviewed the hearing o decision, holding a hearing at which paniagua and donald hinton, a assigned to the services unit, testified. hinton summarized the incidents of 9 misconduct and, when asked by the trial cat among other reasons, t posed to other inmates and jail staff. paniagua, for his part, disputed the veracity of the underlying incident reports. finding the reports credible and paniagua not credible, the trial court sustained the findings of the hearing officer and ordered per privileges remain revoked. the court reminded paniagua that, despite losing his privileges, he continued to have the right to represent himself should he wish to do so, but that the court stood ready to reappoint counsel if he desired it. in april 2017 paniagua accepted representation again by court-appointed counsel. 2. substantial evidence supported the trial courtcause to revoke upholding the revocation of his [his] right to due process and ultimately his sixth amendment ed in propria persona be restricted or terminated except for cause. . . . [v]iolation of jail rules and/or a demonstrable necessity for administrative segregation of a defendant who would otherwise constitute a threat to jail security may justify such restriction or people v. moore (2011) 51 cal.4th 1104, 1125- 10 1126; accord, wilson, supra, 21 cal.3d at pp. 821-822.) due process requires judicial review of an administrative hearing s decision to restrict or terminate privileges. (moore, at p. 1126; wilson, at pp. 827-828.) on appeal from decision, we finding of cause, for substantial evidence. (see moore, at p. 1126 there was substantial evidence supporting a finding of cause for restricting s privileges.) a substantial evidence inquiry examines the record in the light most favorable to the judgment and upholds it if the record contains reasonable, credible evidence of solid value upon which a reasonable trier of fact could have relied in reaching the conclusion in question.people v. armstrong (2016) 1 cal.5th 432, 450.) at the hearing in the trial court, hinton testified that revoking p the safety of other inmates and jail staff. that testimony was supported by rule violations and violent misconduct while using the law library and living in the pro per module, a history documented in reports paniagua no longer disputes misconduct were substantial evidence supporting finding there was (see people v. moore, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 1124-1126 [where the sdepartment revoked the privileges, and the trial court refused his request to reinstate some of them, the defea typewriter was substantial evidence supporting a finding of cause]; wilson, supra, 21 cal.3d at p. 826 [limiting or eliminating 11 administrative necessity involving continuing concerns of jail ].) paniagua cause finding on the been addressed by restricting some of his pro per privileges rather than revoking them the first problem with this argument is that paniagua did not raise it either before the hearing officer or in the trial court, and court will ordinarily not consider procedural defects or erroneous rulings [in connection with relief sought or defenses asserted], where an objection could have been, but was not presented to the people v. jenkins (2000) 22 cal.4th 900, 1000.) therefore, he has forfeited the argument. (see people v. ringo (2005) 134 cal.app.4th 870, 876 ecause of the lack of a timely objection[ ] and the failure to request a specific remedythe defendant forfeited his contention he was unconstitutionally denied access to the law library and other resources for preparing his defense].) second, paniagua has not met his people v. cardenas (2015) 239 cal.app.4th 220, 227) because he has not identified which pro per privilege(s) the trial court supposedly restricted unnecessarily. he comes closest when arguing have justified banning paniagua from the law library, there is no clear connection between the behavior problems paniagua exhibited and, say, his right to issue subpoenas, have access to legal forms, make use of a licensed investigator or legal runner, obtain funds for legal purposes, or have access to legal but paniagua leaves it to us to choose which right 12 (or rights) in this list of possibilities was (or were) unnecessarily restricted3or to imagine others of which the list is perhaps merely illustrative. third, paniagua cites nothing in the record to support his central premise, i.e., that some (unidentified) set of his pro per privileges presented no security concerns. (see people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1011 [rejecting the people v. pettie (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 23, 74 [same].) for this additional reason paniagua has failed to demonstrate error. people v. doss (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 46 (doss), the principal case on which paniagua relies, does not dictate a different result. as an initial matter, it is distinguishable because the court applied an incorrect legal standard in revoking [the id. at p. 49.) the holding in doss thus right to represent himself, not, as here, revocation of pro per privileges. (see id. at pp. 49, 52 [revocation of [p]ro per status distinguished from revocation of pro per privileges].) 3 indeed, the record suggests some privileges in this list were not restricted at all. as noted, paniagua construes the revocation here as extending to all (and only) those rights delineated but not all the rights quoted listfor example, the right to issue subpoenas (on forms furnished by the sheriff) and use of a state-licensed investigatorwere under rule 8.42. rule 8.42 provided for those rights, but not in the section the legislature 13 moreover, the dicta in doss, supra, 230 cal.app.4th 46 on which paniagua relies does not support his argument the trial court erred here. in doss pro per status because of his misconduct in jail. the court of appeal held the trial court erred because it incorrectly evaluated wilson, supra, 21 cal.3d 816, which allows in propria persona privileges to be revoked based on out-of-court misconduct ws effect on the court proceedings rather than under people v. carson (2005) 35 cal.4th 1, which permits revocation of pro per status for conduct that seriously threaten[s] the core integrity of doss, at p. 57, italics omitted.) the court of appeal court failed to adequately consider[, as carson availabilitdoss, at p. 57.) in making the latter point, the court in doss stated: -of-propria persona status involved his in propria persona telephone privileges, but the court never considered the possibility of revoking or limiting only those privileges. indeed, even if the propria persona privileges instead of his status, it would still have been required to choose[, as stated in wilson, supra, 21 cal.3d at p. 824, fn. 7,] with a view to that which is least burdensome on the exercise of the privileges and yet still permits meaningful sanction.doss, supra, 230 cal.app.4th at p. 57.) citing the second sentence in this passage, paniagua argues the trial court here erred because it did not determine whether, instead of revoking all his pro per 14 privileges, a less burdensome option was available to address his misconduct. but the doss court, in the sentence in question, was reciting a requirement from wilson, supra, 21 cal.3d at p. 824 that relates to a different situation than the one here: it relates s as an incidental result of the id. at p. 824.) as the supreme court in wilson pro. per. status should not give an inmate immunity from disciplinary sanctions that would normally be imposed for jail misconduct. by this we mean that a pro. per. inmate should not be relieved of a disciplinary punishment solely because the punishment might interfere with the exercise of his pro. per. privileges. a pro. per. inmate may be subjected to the same sanctions that are imposed on other inmates for similar misconduct. (id. at pp. 824-825.) however, the supreme court in wilson suggested (introducing the language at issue here) that, because of the importance of pro. per. privileges to the right of self-representation, the appropriate disciplinary sanction in such a situation should be selected with a view to that which is least burdensome on the exercise of the privileges and yet still permits meaningful sanction. (id. at p. 824, fn. 7.) the supreme court in wilson separately addressed a different situation, which is the one at issue in this case: restriction of pro per privileges, not as an incidental result of imposing disciplinary sanctions, tions of administrative necessity involving continuing concerns of jail security.wilson, supra, 21 cal.3d at p. 826.) jails generally address this situation, the supreme court explained, by 15 (ibid.) the supreme court held that in this situation procedural due process required a determination of causerestricting pro per privileges. (ibid.) it also be made only upon a showing of demonstrable necessity for [s]uch a decision must be related id. at p. 827.) here, were not incidentally restricted as a result of a disciplinary sanction; they were revoked out of concern for jail security, upon a showing of demonstrable necessity to preserve that security, and the trial court agreed, if impliedly, the measure was indeed preserve jail security.4 paniagua essentially challenges that factual finding of necessity, arguing the jail need only have revoked some, not all, of his pro per privileges to ensure jail security. but for the reasons discussed, that argument fails. b. the trial court did not err in instructing on attempted murder in counts two, three, and four, the people charged paniagua with the attempted murder of pantoja, ponce, and renderos, respectively. on these counts the trial court instructed the jury, pursuant to defendant is charged in counts two, three, and four with attempted murder. to prove that the defendant is guilty of attempted murder, the people must prove that, one, the defendant took at least one direct but ineffective step toward 4 paniagua does not argue, and the court in doss, supra, 230 cal.app.4th 46 did not suggest, the trial court had to make any express findings. 16 killing another person and, two, the defendant intended to kill that person. a direct step requires more than merely planning or preparing to commit murder or attempting or arranging for something needed to commit murder. a direct step is one that goes beyond planning or preparation and shows a person is putting his or her plan into action. a direct step indicates a definite and unambiguous intent to kill. it is a direct movement toward the commission of the crime after preparations are made. it is an immediate step that puts the plan in motion so that the plan would have been completed if some circumstances outside paniagua argues this instruction was erroneous. okill the specific victim, not someone else (see people v. bland (200 he complains the that omission, he argues, likely misled the jury into thinking it needed only find paniagua intended to kill one of the victims named in the three countsmost likely pantoja, the only one woundedto satisfy the intent element for all three counts. ction correctly people v. bates (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 1, 9.) incorrect or incomplete, we evaluate the instructions as a whole, not in isolation. [citation.] for ambiguous instructions, the test is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury misunderstood and misapplied the instruction.people v. nelson (2016) 1 cal.5th 513, 544. 17 whole and the trial record, there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury was assume that jurors are intelligent persons and capable of understanding and correlating all jury instructions which are (people v. sattiewhite (2014) 59 cal.4th 446, 475; see bates, at p. 9 [the correctness of jury instructions is to be determined from the entire charge of the court, not from a consideration of parts of an instruction or from a particular instruction].) bates, at p. 9.) people v. smith [a]ttempted murder requires the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the intended killingpeople v. ramos (2011) 193 cno. 600 correctly states the law of attempted murder.]; people v. lawrence indeed, despite an effort to disguise the fact, paniagua does not really argue the instruction misstated the law. rather, he argues the trial court should have clarified or elaborated on the instruction by (in some unspecified way) pointing out that, for each attempted murder count, the first named in the count. paniagua concedes, however, that he did not raise this issue in the trial court has no sua sponte duty to revise or improve upon an accurate statement of law without a request from counsel [citation], and failure to request clarification of an otherwise correct instruction forfeits the claim of error for 18 people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 638; see ibid. f defendant believed the [pattern jury instruction given] required elaboration or clarification, he was obliged to request such elaboration or clarification in the trial court.see also people v. whalen defendant essentially contends the [pattern jury instruction, which accurately stated the law,] was ambiguous, he did not request a clarifying instruction at trial. accordingly, he has forfeited his claim for purposes of appeal.people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 120 amplification of the instructions provided and accordingly his claim that they were inadequate and misleading is forfeited on ].) therefore, paniagua forfeited this argument. (see souza, at pp. 119-120 [defendant forfeited contention that model instruction on attempted murder misleadingly suggested doctrine of transferred intent applied].) argument also fails on the merits. whereas the trial court instructed the jury on the doctrine of transferred intent in connection with the murder count, it did not do so with the attempted murder counts. other instructions emphasized and that, for each crime charged, specific intent and mental state required are explained in the instruction for that crime or allegation. in arguing the murder count during closing, the prosecutor introduced the doctrine of transferred intent and very particular to murder he did not refer to the doctrine when arguing the attempted murder counts or in any way suggest the jury could find paniagua guilty on all three of those counts based on a finding he intended to murder pantoja. rather, the prosecutor argued paniagua demonstrated the 19 requisite intent when, on because he thought they were rival gang members. in this context, it is not reasonably likely the jury misunderstood or misapplied the attempted murder instructions in the manner paniagua suggests. (see people v. hajek and vo (2014) 58 cal.4th 1144, 1220 any theoretical possibility of confusion [ma], disapproved on another ground in people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1216; people v. souza, supra, 54 cal.4th it is not reasonably likely that the jury applied the transferred intent instruction to the attempted murder counts c. the trial court erred in failing to give a unanimity instruction regarding count nine (felon in possession of a firearm), which requires reversal of the true finding on the gang allegation the people charged paniagua in count nine with being a felon in possession of a firearm on october 13, 2015. when instructing on that count, however, the trial court did not refer to a specific date (or firearm).5 paniagua argues that, because the evidence showed two occasions on which he possessed a firearm (the october 6, 2015 shooting and the october 13, 2015 shooting), the trial court erred in not giving a unanimity instruction on 5 the trial court instructed the jurycharged in count nine with unlawfully possessing a firearm. to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that, one, the defendant possessed a firearm; two, the defendant knew that he possessed the firearm; and, three, the the parties stipulated paniagua was previously convicted of a felony. 20 count nine. our review is de novo. (people v. hernandez (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 559, 568 (hernandez).) unanimous. [citation.] thus, our constitution requires that each individual juror be convinced, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the defendant committed the specific offense he is charged hernandez, supra, 217 cal.app.4th at p. 569.) therefore, a general rule, when violation of a criminal statute is charged and the evidence establishes several acts, any one of which could constitute the crime charged, either the state must select the particular act upon which it relied for the allegation of the information, or the jury must be instructed that it must agree people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 679 (jennings); accord, hernandez, at p. 569e unanimity instruction must be given sua sponte, even in the absence of a defense request to give the hernandez, at p. 569.) the people contend a unanimity instruction was not required because the prosecutor referred to the october 13 shooting when, during closing argument, he argued guilt on count nine, which the people a formal election of the act underlying s what the prosecutor said, having just discussed the murder and attempted murder charges and the gang allegations relating to the october 6 shootingthe last charge in this case [i.e., count nine] is easy because we know he had a gun. the felony conviction has been admitted, so, therefore, we know that 21 the prosecution can indeed make an election in closing shown by the evidence (people v. brown (2017) 11 cal.app.5th 332, 341), but to do clarity and directness as would a judge in giving instruction(people v. melhado (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 1529, 1539). the here was not clear enough. for one thing, the on which the people rely does not provide an obvious transition from discussing the events of october 6 to discussing those of october 13 because the crime of shooting at an occupied vehicle was charged in connection with both shootings. for anotherthe did not clearly exclude the october 6 shooting as another, i.e., alternative, basis for convicting on count nine. -there . . . is no need for a unanimity instruction if the defendant offers the same defense or defenses to the various acts jennings, supra, 50 cal.4th at pp. 679-680.) they argue paniagua used the same defense in denying he was the shooter on october 6 and october 13namely, hooting and was misidentified and therefore no unanimity instruction was required. the charge he was the shooter on october 6 and his defense to the charge he was the shooter on october 13 challenged entirely different prosecutorial presentationsdifferent eyewitnesses, different forensic evidencerelating to entirely different shootings. thus, the defenses were not the of necessarily standing or falling together, that is, in the sense of leaving no ground on 22 which the jury could find he was the shooter on one of the two dates but not the other. (see people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 defendant offered the same defense to both acts constituting the charged crime, so no juror could have believed defendant ]; people v. davis (2005) 36 cal.4th 510, 562 [same]; people v. stankewitz (1990) 51 cal.3d 72, 100 [unanimity instruction is not to each of the acts and there is no reasonable basis for the jury to .) the same-defense exception therefore did not apply, and the trial court erred in failing to give a unanimity instruction. offense of being a felon in possession of a firearm, however, that error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (see chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [827 s.ct. 824, 828] (chapman); hernandez, supra, 217 cal.app.4th at p. 577 [because erroneous failure violates federal constitutional rights, the chapman standard applies6 a 6 courts are divided on the standard of prejudice to apply to the failure to give a unanimity instruction, with some applying the state law standard of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836, and others the standard for federal constitutional error in chapman, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24. (see hernandez, supra, 217 cal.app.4th at pp. 576-577 [discussing split].) we follow the majority in applying the chapman standard, concluding that failing to give the unanimity instruction can lower the s burden of proof in a criminal case, an error of federal constitutional dimension. (see hernandez, at p. 576.) 23 unanimous jury found paniagua, a felon, shot a nine-millimeter handgun at an occupied motor vehicle on october 13, 2015. there is therefore no reasonable doubt all 12 jurors agreed paniagua was guilty of being a felon in possession of a firearm on that date. (see people v. wright (2006) 40 cal.4th 81, 99 [failure to instruct was harmless under chapman necessarily resolved, although in a different setting, the same factual question that would have been presented by the missing , in a ]; people v. chaffin (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 1348, 1353 ailure to give the omitted instruction was necessarily resolved adversely to the defendant under other, properly given instructions. in such cases the issue should not be deemed to have been removed from the cf. people v. jones (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 1139, 1147 y must have had either actual or constructive possession of the gun while riding in the car, as evidenced by his control over and use of the gun during the ; people v. buyle (1937) 20 cal.app.2d 650, 658 [possession may be said very properly not to necessarily include use and handling, on the other hand 7 7 affirmatively show[s] that no jurors based their verdict on the october 6 possessionboth his opening brief and his reply brief base this contention on the following statement in people v. aledamat when an appellate court determines that a trial court has presented a jury with two theories supporting a convictionone legally valid and one legally invalidtabsent a 24 we are not as confident all jurors agreed paniaguapossession of a firearm on october 13, 2015 met the requirements for a gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). it concerns us, in particular, that all 12 jurors did not agree his shooting at an occupied motor vehicle on october 13 met those requirements, as evidenced by the not true finding on the gang allegation relating to that offense. therefore, we must reverse the true finding on the gang allegation relating to count nine. d. unintelligible 1. the jury convicted paniagua of second degree murder on the murder count, the trial court instructed the jury on the elements of both first degree and second degree murder. the not guilty of first degree murder and second degree murder. you may consider these different kinds of homicide in whatever order you wish, but i can accept a verdict of guilty or not guilty of basis in the record to find that the verdict was actually based on a valid ground. (id. at p. 1153, italics omitted.) more than two months before paniagua filed his opening brief, however, the supreme court granted review of that opinion (people v. aledamat, review granted july 5, 2018, s248105), a fact (and the people) failed to mention. (see cal. rules of court, rule 8.1115(e)(1).) indeed, also not mentioned by either party, the supreme court has since reversed the decision in people v. aledamat, supra, 20 cal.app.5th 1149 on exactly the point in question, holding a so--theory error is subject to the more general chapman harmless people v. aledamat (2019) 8 cal.5th 1, 13.) 25 second degree murder only if all of you have first found the defendant not guilty of first deg the court directed completed and s the murder count: proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant is guilty of first degree murder, complete and sign that verdict form. do not complete or sign any other verdict forms for count one. l of you cannot agree whether the defendant is guilty of first degree murder, inform me that you cannot reach an agreement and do not complete or sign any verdict forms as to that count. of first degree murder but also agree that the defendant is guilty of second degree murder, complete and sign the form for not guilty of first degree murder and the form for guilty of second degree murder. do not complete or sign any other verdict forms for that count. first degree murder but you cannot agree whether the defendant is guilty of second degree murder, complete and sign the form for not guilty of first degree murder and inform me that you cannot reach further agreement. do not complete or sign any other verdict forms for that count. first degree murder and not guilty of second degree murder, complete and sign the verdict forms for not guilty of both. do not 26 the jury returned two completed verdict forms relating to the murder count, both signed and dated by the jury foreperson. one form was unt 1 / first degree. the text in the body of that the jury in the above entitled action, find the defendant, [paniagua], not guilty of the crime of murder, in violation of penal code section 187(a), a felony, as charged in count 1 of the . . . the other form was rdict / count 1 / second degree. the jury in the above entitled action, find the defendant, [paniagua], guilty of the crime of second degree murder of eduardo rebolledo, in violation of penal code section 187(a), a felony, as charged in count 1 of the related allegations for firearm and gang enhancements, each followed by a blank line on which was written the trial court asked the courtroom clerk to read the verdict forms aloud . the clerk first guilty verdict / count 1 / first degrreading aloud the title of that form. the clerk next read aloud true findings for the enhancements), but again without reading aloud the title of the form. after reading the remaining forms aloud, the clerk asked the jurors if this was their verdict, and they answered yes. the court asked counsel for paniagua if she would like to have the jury polled, and she declined. the court then thanked and excused the jury. 27 2. the murder verdict was not unintelligible paniagua contends we must reverse the verdict on the murder count because it was unintelligible. observing that the clerk read aloud only the text in the body of the two verdict formsone of which stated the crime of murder, the other stating it paniagua argues this . this means, according to him, the jury found him both guilty and not guilty on the same count, a verdict that cannot stand. this argument is meritless. a verdict is to be given a reasonable intendment and be construed in light of the issues submitted to the jury and the instructions of the court. [citations.] [citations.] the form of a verdict is immaterial provided the intention to convict of the crime charged is unmistakably expressed. [citation.] [citation.] intent to convict of a specified offense within the charges is s substantial rights suffered (people v. jones (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 373, 378-379 (jones); accord, people v. camacho (2009) 171 cal.app.4th 1269, 1272-1273 (camacho).) the trial court gave the jury clear and detailed instructions for returning a verdict of second degree murder, and the jury followed those instructions to a t.people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1190.) thpaniagua of second degree murder (and not first degree murder) was unmistakably clear, and any defect in recording that verdict s substantial rights. (see people v. jones s intended verdict was 28 unmistakably clear because of the s instructions]; jones, supra, 230 cal.app.4th at p. 379 first degree murder, not second degree murder, was unmistakably clear because it followed the camacho, supra, 171 cal.app.4th at pp. 1271, 1273-1274 [although the completed verdict form, which was read aloud and on which the jury was polled, mistakenly identified the offense as carjacking, the convict the defendant of robbery was unmistakably clear from the trial record, including the instructions].) we agree with the people that paniagua essentially argues and no case he cites says this. (cf. camacho, supra, 171 determirobbery].) any such prohibition would in fact seem impossible to observe where, as here, the verdict forms are so thoroughly bound up the issues submitted to the jury and the instructions of the courtjones, supra, 230 cal.app.4th at p. 379)which indisputably we may, indeed must, consider. moreover, the cases on which paniagua principally relies are distinguishable. for example, he cites people v. valenzuela (2018) 23 cal.app.5th 82 for id. at p. 85.) but that case concerned the effect of a verdict form the jury did not orally confirm. (id. at pp. 84-85.) the jury orally confirmed both forms at issue here. similarly, in people v. soto (1985) 166 cal.app.3d 428 the jury returned and orally confirmed, on a murder count, a single 29 completed verdict form stating guilty of murder as charged in count i . . . and [fixed] the degree (id. at pp. 435-436.) the court construe the verdict to find appellant guilty of second degree id. at p. 438.) here, the jury expressly found paniagua guilty of second degree murder, and the supposedly inconsistent finding was on a separate verdict form, the title of which made clear it was not an inconsistent finding at all. finally, in people v. brown (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 211, when the jury returned two completed verdict forms on first degree murder, one for guilty and one for not guilty, the trial court, without inquiring of the jury or discussing with counsel, decided the not guilty verdict was a mistake and recorded only the guilty verdict. (id. at p. 230.) the court of appeal reversed, there is no recordable verdict when the jury purports to find the defendant guilty and not guilty on the same count, and the court does not get to pick the verdict to be entered based on its conclusion that that verdict is the correct one and the other was erroneously made.id. at p. 232.) the trial court here did not pick one verdict to record in favor of another, and as discussed, the jury did not purport to find paniagua guilty and not guilty on the same count. 30 e. the trial court must correct its minute order and not true finding on the gang allegation relating to count seven although the jury returned a not true finding on the gang allegation relating to count seven (shooting at an occupied motor that allegation. paniagua contends, the people concede, and we agree that the minute order is incorrect in that respect and that the sentence the court imposed on count seven, which included a gang enhancement, was unauthorized. on remand, the trial court must correct its minute order and the unauthorized sentence imposed on count seven. f. remand is appropriate to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the prior serious felony conviction the trial court imposed a five-year enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), on each of counts one, two, three, four, and seven. at the time, section 1385, which gives a trial people v. fuentes (2016) 1 cal.5th 218, 225;  1385, subd. (a)), did not allow the court to do so for enhancements under section 667 (see former  1385, subd. (b)). 667 and 1385 delete language prohibiting a judge from striking a prior serious felony conviction for purposes of eliminating a five-year sentence enhancement. instead, the court now may exercise discretion to strike a prior serious felony in the interest of justice. ( 667, 1385, people 31 v. pride (2019) 31 cal.app.5th 133, 142.) paniagua contends, the people concede, and we agree these recent amendments apply retroactively. (ibid.) therefore, we remand for the trial court to consider whether to exercise its prior serious felony conviction for purposes of the enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). disposition the true finding on the gang allegation relating to the conviction for possession of a firearm by a felon is reversed, and the matter is remanded for resentencing. the trial court is directed to correct the minute order that incorrectly reflects the jury returned a true finding on the gang allegation relating to count seven (shooting at an occupied motor vehicle), to correct the unauthorized sentence imposed for the conviction on that count, and to exercise its discretion whether to strike the serious felony prior conviction for purposes of sentence enhancement. the court can also consider the effect, if any, of senate bill 136 on the enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b). in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. feuer, j. 