filed 12/27/18 p. v. luna ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joseph adam luna, defendant and appellant. b289358 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va145049) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, robert j. higa, judge. affirmed. melcher & melcher, william paul melcher, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and nancy lii ladner, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction a jury found defendant joseph luna guilty of possession of methamphetamine for sale. on appeal, defendant contends that the trial court violated his due process right to a fair trial by highly prejudicial and grounds for a mistrial. we hold that, because the trial court struck the challenged testimony immediately after it was presented, admonished the jury to disregard it, and then properly instructed the jury on reasonable doubt, the court did not abuse its discretion by mistrial. we therefore affirm the judgment. ii. factual background a. on the morning of june 16, 2017, city of bell detective jaime baltazar and others slauson avenue bridge, in the city of bell near the 710 freeway. fetal position facing [him] . . . with his eyes closed and his hands defendant move, he removed it. the detective again told 3 efused. in response, the hitting him in his legs. detective ordered [pant] crystal-like subs1 and removed it. he then took defendant to a waiting patrol vehicle for transportation to the bell police department. according to detective baltazar, during the 15 or 20 minute period from initial contact to transport, defendant did not appear to be under the influence of methamphetamine. type of officer bill mccullah responded to the slauson avenue bridge location at the request of detective baltazar. he transported defendant, the jar containing suspected methamphetamine, and a wallet containing currency to the bell 1 weighed the methamphetamine recovered from him and determined it weighed 26.35 grams. criminalist michael adeva also weighed the recovered methamphetamine at the crime lab and confirmed that it weighed 26.36 grams, plus or minus 0.0018 of a gram. 4 police department. there, the officer conducted a preliminary ubstance to a lab for confirmation.2 he also counted the currency in the wallet, which totaled $85. with the exception of one $20 bill, the other bills were in denominations of $5 or less. sergeant james corcoran testified for the prosecution as a drug expert. according to sergeant corcoran, a useable amount -quarter of a gram. one gram of methamphetamine had a street value of $20 to $40; an 3.5 grams of methamphetamine had a street value of $50 to $100; a half ounce or 14 grams had a value of $250 to $300; and an ounce or approximately 28 grams had a value of $300 to $500. sergeant corcoran opined that defendant possessed the 26.35 grams of methamphetamine for sale. he based that opinion on the following factors: the quantity of methamphetamine recovered, which was the equivalent of 104 individual doses; the absence of any evidence of drug paraphernalia used to ingest the drug; the fact that defendant to seal the 2 criminalist adeva subsequently subjected the substance recovered from defendant to testing in the crime lab and confirmed that it tested positive for methamphetamine. 5 sergeant corcoran explained that the lack of evidence of defendant was likely dealing in cash with the other homeless people living under the bridge and may have intended to sell the entire amount of methamphetamine, just under an ounce, without breaking it into smaller amounts or individual doses. sergeant corcoran had never seen a drug user ingest more than one gram at one time, and three grams in one day would be user ingesting 26.35 grams in one day. b. defense case john jenks, a forensic addiction specialist and licensed private investigator, testified as a drug expert for the defense. he was a former law enforcement officer who had worked four years as an undercover narcotics investigator. could ingest in a day was 16 grams or a little over one-half ounce. in response to a hypothetical question that assumed facts similar to those at issue in this case, jenks explained that he did not have enough information to conclude that methamphetamine recovered from the hypothetical defendant was possessed for sale. based on the facts provided, he did not know if the hypothetical defendant was a user or, if he was a user, how long he had been a user, the method of ingestion, or the purity of the drug. jenks further explained that the fact a given defendant may not show signs of methamphetamine intoxication at the time 6 of arrest was inconclusive on the issue of possession for sale because habitual users develop a high tolerance for the drug and often do not exhibit the typical signs or symptoms of intoxication. given the limited information provided, jenks could not rule out the possibility that the $85 and the amount of the methamphetamine recovered were for personal use. he also believed the glass jar with the taped top was inconsistent with possession for sale. iii. procedural background in an amended information, the los angeles county district attorney charged defendant with possession of a controlled substance for sale in violation of health and safety code section 11378. the district attorney alleged that defendant had suffered three prior convictions for which he had served prison terms within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). following trial, the jury found defendant guilty as charged, and defendant admitted the three prior convictions. the trial court sentenced defendant to the middle term of two years and struck the prior conviction allegations. iv. discussion defendant contends that the improper opinion testimony of doubt that defendant possessed the methamphetamine for highly prejudicial. 7 a. background on cross-that the quantity of methamphetamine recovered from defendant indicated that it was processed for sale, not personal use. during that questioning, the following exchange took place. methamphetamine, in your experience, talking to thousands of people who have used methamphetamine, do they use their money and their resources to support their addiction? [] [sergeant corcoran]: they do. [] . . . [] [sergeant corcoran]: generalize, i would say, they acquired just enough for the next fix. just enough. [] the costco defense is out. [] [] nobody buys more methamphetamine planning ahead? [] [sergeant corcoran]: you can never say no, but in a case of an individual living under a bridge . . . in that case, absolutely not. who lives under a bridge could buy more methamphetamine than they consume in one day. [] correct? [] [sergeant corcoran]: ility, . [] speculation. calls for speculation. [] the court: all right. [] sustai 8 for a mistrial, arguing that sergeant cobeyond a reasonable doubt standard was an improper opinion the ensuing argument, the prosecutor suggested that the trial court could strike the answer and admonish the jury not to consider it. following further argument, the trial court after a break, the trial court noted that the court and counsel had reviewed the opinion in people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038 [discussing limitations on law enforcement expert maintained that opinions on guilt and innocence are inadmissible and that a curative instruction would not ameliorate the [the] motion is denied. [] i will advise the jurors to disregard any reference to [move] the following proceedings were then held in the presence of reason3 3 in respobeyond a reasonable doubt that [25 grams of methamphetamine] would be [too much for personal use] and you have to take into consideration t 9 that completely. [] disregard it. [] strike it. [] and i will instruct you on what reasonable doubt or beyond a reasonable doubt is. [] and it is for you to decide whether any fact has been prove[n] beyond a reasonable doubt. [] totally your duty. [] do you all understand this idea? [] anybody not understand during the reading of the jury instructions, the trial court advisereasonable doubt standard for the jury. b. legal principles 1. mistrial motions and standard of review if the court is apprised of prejudice that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. [citation.] whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discret(people v. haskett people v. alexander (2010) 49 cal.4th 846, 915.) deferential abuse of discretion standard. (people v. mclain people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1068.) that standard also applies to review of a declaring a mistrial. (people v. navarrete (2010) 181 cal.app.4th not object to the 10 828, 834 [(navarrete)]exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 9-(people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 745; see also people v. mora and rangel (2018) 5 cal.5th 442, 502-503 [abuse of urt acts unreasonably given 2. curative instructions it is well established that a trial court has broad discretion to rely on instructions and admonitions to cure any potential prejudice to a defendant from improper testimony inadvertently presented to the jury. in navarrete, supra, 181 cal.app.4th 828, instruction to disregard improper testimony is sufficient to protect a defendant from the injury of such testimony, and, ordinarily, we presume a jury is capable of following such an id. at p. 834.) similarly, the supreme court has instruction to disregard inadmissible evidence inadvertently richardson v. marsh, 481 u.s. 200, 208 (1987), and a strong likelihood that the effect of the defendant, bruton v. united states, 391 u.s. 123, 136 . . . (1968) [(bruton)]greer v. miller (1987) 483 u.s. 756, 767, fn. 11 subject matter is of such a character that its effect . . . cannot be people v. allen (1978) 77 not, or cannot, follow instructions is so great, and the consequences of failure so vital to the defendant, that the practical and human limitations of the jury system cannot be bruton, supra, 391 u.s. at p. 135.) c. analysis in his opening brief, defendant does not expressly challenge his motion for mistrial. instead, admission of the challenged opinion testimony of sergeant reviews [a] admission of [evidence] for abuse of if the erroneous introduction of expert testimony (italics added.) in doing so, defendant ignores the fact that, in otion for mistrial, the trial court struck the challenged expert testimony and admonished the jury to disregard it. motion, this appeal cannot fairly be characterized as a challenge to the trial couoffending testimony was inadvertently presented by the expert after he had already used the same phrase in front of the jury without objection from the defense. thus, the challenge on appeal is more accurately characterized as a challenge to the trial 12 curative instruction to remedy any potential prejudice. curative instruction in lieu of granting a mistrial is reviewed for abuse of discretion. here, the record demonstrates that the trial immediately after the expert made the challenged statement about reasonable doubt, the trial court excused the jury and request for a mistrial. the trial court described the issue as legal research and present case authority and further argument. after considering the authority presented by counsel and hearing further argument, the trial court decided to strike the challenged testimony and admonish the jury to disregard it. the jury was thereafter not only advised that the challenged testimony had been stricken from the record and was not to be considered in whether any fact ha[dand then properly instructed on the concept of reasonable doubt. inadmissible evidence, we perceive no basis for finding an abuse of discretion. there is no indication in the record that the jury and nothing to suggest that the jury did not, or could not, follow harm from the improper testimony could not be removed by use of a curative instruction. 13 v. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kim, j. we concur: baker, acting p. j. seigle, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 