filed 2/19/19 p. v. thomas ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. vincent d. thomas, defendant and appellant. b289384 (los angeles county super. ct. no.ma071807) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa mangay chung, judge. affirmed. donna ford, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury found defendant vincent thomas guilty of one count of inflicting corporal injury on his girlfriend and acquitted him of two counts of witness intimidation. the trial court sentenced him to a total of nine years in prison. defendant timely appealed. his appointed counsel filed a brief that raised no issues and requested independent review of the record pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende). defendant filed a supplemental brief in which he contends the prosecutor failed to prove that he and the victim that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance, and that the trial court erred in imposing the high term sentence, issuing protective orders, and calculating his presentence custody credits. the trial court already has none of the other issues raised by defendant constitutes reversible error, and our independent review of the record does not reveal any other arguable issues. we accordingly affirm. procedural history an amended information charged defendant with inflicting corporal injury on his girlfriend, victoria s. (pen. code,  273.5, subd. (a))1, dissuading victoria from reporting the crime ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1)), and dissuading a witness to the crime, tina v., from reporting it ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1)). the information further alleged that defendant suffered two strike priors ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12); a 1983 burglary conviction and a 2012 criminal threats conviction; two serious felony convictions ( 667, subd. (a)(1)); and one one-year prison prior ( 667.5, subd. (b)). defendant pled not guilty and denied the allegations. defendant 1all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 waived his right to counsel and acted in propria persona during pretrial proceedings. he filed a motion to set aside the information and dismiss the case, as well as evidentiary objections related to the preliminary hearing. the trial court reviewed the preliminary hearing transcript and denied objections without prejudice. defendant relinquished his propria persona status and invoked his right to counsel prior to trial. the trial court appointed counsel to represent him. defense counsel successfully substantive offenses. defendant proceeded to jury trial on the substantive offenses. the jury found him guilty of inflicting corporal injury on victoria but acquitted him of the other charges. the trial court subsequently found all of the priors true. the trial court denied motion to strike his prior strikes pursuant to people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. it sentenced him to the high term of four years, doubled to eight years pursuant to the prior criminal threats strike conviction, plus an additional one year for the prison prior.2 the court awarded defendant a total of 472 days of custody credit and issued protective orders for both victoria and tina; tina had alleged her. defendant timely appealed. his appointed counsel ntence credits to include an additional 106 days. the court granted the 2it is unclear from the record why the court did not use the 4 request and amended the abstract of judgment to reflect a total of 578 days of presentence credit. -issue wende brief in this court. counsel sent defendant a copy of the brief and trial transcripts and informed him of his right to file a supplemental brief. we also sent a letter, dated october 9, 2018, advising defendant of his right to file a supplemental brief. defendant timely filed a supplemental brief. factual background around 5:30 a.m. on july 31, 2017, tina v. was hanging laundry on the balcony of her lancaster apartment when she heard a commotion. a man she identified in court as defendant was yelling at a woman. as tina looked on, defendant punched the woman in the face three times, knocking her to the ground. tina hurried downstairs and outside, where she saw the woman defendant continued to yell at the woman, telling her to get up and get back on her bicycle. tina told defendant that he would be going to jail, and defendant responded that she should mind her own business or else tina other tenan tina told one of the security guards to call the police. she then got on her bicycle and started following defendant and the woman, who were leaving the scene. the other security guard followed them in his patrol car. tina stopped following them when law enforcement arrived. david villagomez testified that he was on duty as an overnight security guard at an apartment building in lancaster on the morning of july 31, 2017. around 5:30 or 5:40 a.m., he 5 heard yelling and screaming and saw a woman lying on the ground. a man he identified in court as defendant was standing over her, telling her to get up: i villagomez testified that the woman looked unconscious or was otherwise taking her time to get up. at the villagomez called police. he also asked his colleague, who was on patrol duty, to follow defendant and the woman. victoria s. testified that she and defendant, whom she months as of july 31, 2017. they were on an early morning bike ride when they got into an argument. victoria called defendant a to the ground. while she was on the ground, she saw a puddle of she also saw onlookers, some of whom said they were going to call the police. defendant told the he then started walking victoria to her house; some of the onlookers followed. victoria told defendant to leave because she did not want him to get arrested, but he stayed with her all the way to her house. when the police arrived, they took photographs of her injuries. several of the photographs were admitted into evidence. on cross-examination, victoria testified that defendant was her boyfriend, that they texted and los angeles couuty nathan ferrell testified that he responded to a call in lancaster around 5:40 6 a.m. on july 31, 2017. he spoke to tina, who directed him to defendant. ferrell took defendant into custody and advised him of his miranda3 rights. defendant then told him that he and ferrell spoke to victoria, of her injuries. ferrell also took a photograph of defendant after he was booked; that photograph was admitted into evidence. defendant invoked his fifth amendment right to remain discussion in his supplemental brief, defendant contends that he and vichis conviction under section 273.5, subdivision (a); that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance; that the sixth amendment and cunningham v. california (2007) 549 u.s. 270 (cunningham) barred the trial court from sentencing him to the upper term; that the trial court miscalculated his presentence issuing protective orders for victoria and tina. we consider his arguments in turn. i. dating relationship the jury found defendant guilty of violating section 273.5, resulting in a traumatic condition upon a victim described in one of the victims described in subdivision (b) is offender has, or previously had, an engagement or dating relationship, as defined in paragraph (10) of subdivision (f) of 3miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 7 ( 273.5, subd. (b)(3).) section 243, subdivision associations primarily characterized by the expectation of affectional or sexual involvement independent of financial in people v. rucker (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1107, 1116 (rucker), the court held that this definition does not it explained th (ibid.) (id. at p. 1117.) defendant contends established by the d.d.a. record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty [citation.] . . . must acquit if it finds the evidence susceptible of a reasonable interpretation favoring innocence, it is the jury rather than the reviewing court that weighs the evidence, resolves conflicting inferences and determines whether the people have established guilt beyond a reasonable doubt [citation.] opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant (people v. casares (2016) 62 8 cal.4th 808, 823-824.) victoria spent time tog defendant bought the jury reasonably could conclude from this testimony that defendant and victoria, who were on a bicycle ride together at dawn when the incident occurred, were in a dating rather than merely social or business relationship. the sole case defendant cites, oriola v. thaler (2000) 84 cal.app.4th 397 (oriola), (rucker, supra, 126 cal.app.4th at p. 1115.) social relationship between two individuals who have or have had a reciprocally amorous and increasingly exclusive interest in one another, and shared expectation of the growth of that mutual interest, that has endured for such a length of time and stimulated such frequent interactions that the relationship (oriola, supra, 84 cal.app.4th at p. 412.) the oriola court concluded that an applicant for a restraining order under the domestic violence that definition where she and the party sought be restrained social outings (on only one of which they were 9 alone) and had telephone conversations, e-mail correspondence in a romantic relationship with him; their relationship was relatively brief and never exclusive . . . and [the party sought to be restrained] was immediately disabused of any expectation that (ibid.) oriola was decided, the legislature enacted a forth in section 243, subdivision (f)(10). (rucker, supra, 126 cal.app.4th at p. 1116.) oriola definition, which predates the currently applicable definition, is thus misplaced. moreover, oriola is factually distinguishable. there is no indication that either defendant or victoria ever romantic relationship mig to the contrary, ii. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant appears to suggest, by citing the seminal case strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, and the recent case mccoy v. louisiana (2018) --- u.s. ---, 138 s.ct. 1500, that his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance (strickland) or improperly conceded his guilt without his permission (mccoy). defendant does not provide any further details, record citations, or argument on these points. rights to counsel (u.s. const., 6th amend.; cal. const., art. i,  15) include the right to effective legal assistanc (people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009, italics omitted.) 10 challenging a conviction on grounds of ineffective assistance, the to satisfy erformance was deficient, in that it fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms. second, the defendant must show resulting prejudice, i.e., a reasonable the (ibid.) . . . proper functioning of the adversarial process that the trial cannot be relied on as having produce (people v. mendoza (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, 158.) in reviewing claims of ineffective assistance of counsel, we of profes(people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 391.) defendant thus bears the burden of establishing constitutionally inadequate assistance of (ibid.) light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory (ibid.) defendant has not pointed to any action(s) or inaction(s) by counsel that allegedly fell below an objective standard of s) or inaction(s) prejudiced him in any way. his reference to mccoy suggests that he believes his counsel impermissibly conceded his 11 his hands on [victoria],or his comment during closing argument while lacking any reasonable tactical reason to do so, can constitute ineffectiveness of counsel (people v. gurule (2002) 28 cal.4th presented, or for concluding that candor would be an effective (id. at p. 612.) here, the evidence showedvia photographs, witness, and victim testimonythat defendant punched victoria in the face. defense at fact was realistic. more defense counsel argued, as defendant does here, that defendant was not guilty of the charged offense because he and victoria did not have a after reviewing the testimony and the this was not a concession of defen was it an unreasonable trial strategy. iii. upper term sentence defendant argues that the trial court erred by sentencing him to the upper term of four years rather than the midterm of three years. he contends that, under cunningham, supra, the midterm was the maximum term to which he could be sentenced, absent jury findings of aggravating facts. we disagree. 12 in apprendi v. new jersey (2000) 530 u.s. 466, 490, the conviction, any fact that increases the penalty for a crime beyond the prescribed statutory maximum must be submitted to a jury, the court later clarified apprendi purposes is the maximum sentence a judge may impose solely on the basis of the facts reflected in the jury verdict or admitted by the defendant(blakely v. washington (2004) 542 u.s. 296, 304.) in cunninghamdeterminate sentencing law, which at that time provided that (cunningham, supra, 549 u.s. at p. 277, quoting former  1170, subd. (b).) the supreme court concluded that the determinate sentence as then written violated the sixth amendment as interpreted in apprendi and blakely judge, not the jury, authority to find the facts that expose a (cunningham, supra, 549 u.s. at p. 274.) the california legislature responded to cunningham by amending section 1170, subdivision (b), to its current form, which allows trial judges broad discretion in selecting a term within a statutory range. (see people v. wilson (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 988, 992.) under the revised version of section 1170, subdivision is no longer the presumptive term absent aggravating or mitigating facts found by the trial judge; and (2) a trial judge has the discretion to impose an upper, middle or lower term based on (ibid.) thus, the current version of the 13 decision, (people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 846-847.) defendant does not contend that the trial court abused that discretion, only that the upper term sentence violated his sixth amendment rights. for the reasons we explained above, it did not. iv. presentence credits defendant argues that the trial court incorrectly calculated his presentence credits. as we related above, however, his appellate counsel identified the error, notified the court, and secured a corrected abstract of judgment. defendant has not pointed to any additional error in the calculation of his custody credits, and the record does not reflect any. v. protective order by issuing a restraining order barring him from contact with tina v. even though he was acquitted of dissuading tina v. from testifying. by the trial judge, which we interpret to mean the similar restraining order barring him from contacting victoria s. the version of section 136.2, subdivision (a)(1) in effect at the time the court issued the order provided: belief that harm to, or intimidation or dissuasion of, a victim or witness has occurred or is reasonably likely to occur, a court with jurisdiction over a criminal matter may issue orders, including . . . (d) an order that a person described in this section shall have no communication whatsoever with a specified witness or a 14 victim, except through an attorney under reasonable restrictions victim or witness of violent crime from all contact by the defendant, or contact, with the intent to annoy harass, threaten, or commit acts of violence, by the de subdivision (i)(1) has been convicted of a crime involving domestic violence as defined in section 13700 . . . the court, at the time of sentencing, shall consider issuing an order restraining the defendant from subdivision (i)(2) similarly prodefendant has been convicted of a crime involving domestic violence as defined in section 13700 . . . the court, at the time of sentencing, shall consider issuing an order restraining the defendant from any contact with a percipient witness to the crime if it can be established by clear and convincing evidence that the witness has been harassed, as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of section 527.6 of the code of civil procedure, by 4 these provisions gave the court the authority to issue the challenged protective orders. an adult . . . who is a . . . person with whom the suspect . . . has 4code of civil procedure, section 527.6, subdivision (b)(3) defines violence, or a knowing and willful course of conduct directed at a specific person that seriously alarms, annoys, or harasses the person, and that serves no legitimate purpose. the course of conduct must be that which would cause a reasonable person to suffer substantial emotional distress, and must actually cause 15 tina v. reported that and testified that she was staying with friends because she did not feel safe in her apartment due to court. tina also testified that she had requested relocation assistance. the court could find from this testimony that tina vi. wende review we have independently reviewed the entire record. we are satisfied that no arguable issues exist and appellant has received effective appellate review of the judgment entered against him. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 277-279; people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal. 4th 106, 123-124.) disposition the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: manella, p. j. willhite, j. 