filed 5/16/19 p. v. segarra ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. johnny segarra, defendant and appellant. b289100 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va143694) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. laura f. priver, judge. reversed and remanded. jeanine g. strong, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant 2 attorney general, david madeo and stephanie c. santoro, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * in a single day in january 2017, johnny segarra (defendant) approached three different people and tried to take their cars; one time he failed, but the other two times he succeeded. while driving one of the cars, he led law enforcement on a chase through the streets of huntington park. at trial, defendant testified to committing the carjacking-related crimes and to evading, but explained that his activities that day were at the behest of the national security agency (nsa), the central intelligence agency (cia), the federal bureau of investigation (fbi), the department of homeland security or some other a jury acquitted him of the carjacking-related crimes but convicted him of felony evasion. on appeal, defendant argues that the trial court erred in (1) denying his motion for discovery pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess), and (2) excluding his post-arrest statement to law enforcement that his actions that day were part of a we conclude that the trial court properly denied the pitchess motion, but abused its discretion in excluding -arrest statement. because this statement was exclusion was prejudicial and requires us to vacate his felony evasion conviction and remand for further proceedings. facts and procedural history i. facts on january 4, 2017, defendant tried to carjack three different cars. 3 just before lunchtime, he approached a man sitting in a vw jetta and suddenly , rolled his eyes back in his head, and started breathing hard. the assistance. and closed the door. defendant drove away. defendant eventually drove the jetta to a parking lot outside of a food 4 less and abandoned it. a little after lunchtime, defendant approached a woman sitting in a honda crv in the food 4 less parking lot. he make it look like he had a gun, and told the owner to hand over almost immediately after the owner handed over her keys, a male ordered defendant to return her keys. defendant did so, and walked away. a few hours later, defendant approached a woman sitting in a kia soul in a carls jr. parking lot. he walked up to the mimic a gun, and told the owner to she complied, and defendant drove away in the car. the driver called 911, and a marked scar saw the kia, turned on its lights and siren, and tried to pull the car over. defendant did not stop. instead, he led the police on a five- to ten-mile pursuit through the streets of huntington park; during the chase, defendant drove into oncoming traffic three times and drove through several traffic signals and stop 4 signs without slowing. defendant eventually jumped out of the car and bolted on foot; the foot chase ended with his arrest. ii. procedural background the people charged defendant with two counts of carjacking (pen. code,  215)1 for the jetta and kia, one count of attempted carjacking ( 215, 664, subd. (a)) for the honda crv, and one count of felony evasion of the police (veh. code,  2800.2, subd. (a)).2 under our three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) as well the matter proceeded to a jury trial. defendant testified in his own defense. specifically, defendant testhe cia, the department of homeland security, the fbi or ere through a variety of different internet websites, cell phone apps, and homeless people. on january 4, defendant further ability to obtain a car and retrieve his friend francesca. taking his cue from car horns, defendant tried to obtain a car by carjacking (so as not to leavthe three car owners defendant approached, however, faked their distress 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the people filed an amended information, but it is not part of the recordand pertinent allegations remained the same. 5 defendant recounted that he evaded the sheriffs while driving the last car because he did not want to compromise his mission to save francesca and because he was unsure whether the sheriffs also knew about the operation. defendant testified that he began having these delusions after he started taking methamphetamines a few years earlier. the trial court instructed the jury on the charged crimes of carjacking, attempted carjacking and felony evasion, as well as the lesser included offense of misdemeanor evasion. the court also instructed the jury on the defenses of mental impairment and voluntary intoxication. the jury convicted defendant of felony evasion, but acquitted him of both carjacking crimes and of attempted carjacking. in a separate, bifurcated hearing, the trial court the trial court sentenced defendant to a four-year sentence, calculated as a mid-term sentence of two years, doubled due to the prior strike. defendant filed this timely appeal. discussion i. pitchess motion a. pertinent facts prior to trial, defendant filed a motion to obtain the personnel records and citizen complaints regarding four sdeputiesthe two officers in the patrol car that pursued him, and the two officers who arrived as back up and led the foot chase. out of the carjacked kia soul when one of the patrol cars ran over 6 injured himself tripping on a sidewalk; and that tperjury in their reports warranted disclosure of records at the hearing on the motion, the trial court noted that for why b. analysis defendant argues that the trial court erred in denying his pitchess motion. we review such denials for an abuse of discretion. (people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 330.) the of and as well as by members of the are conditionally privileged under california law. ( 832.5, 832.7, 832.8.) this conditional privilege is overcome only if the party seeking them follows the procedures first articulated in pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d 531, and later codified in evidence code section 1043 through 1047. under these procedures, a court must find cause for the discovery or disthat is, a showing that the agency from which the records and complaints are sought possesses them and, more relevant here, a showing that the records and complaints are . . . to the subject matter involved in the pending (evid. code,  1043, subd. (b)(3).) to establish materiality, the requesting party must (1) set forth a and scenario of officer and (2) must establish both how the information sought is to the misconduct alleged in the pending action and, as is critical here, how the information would support 7 a defense or negate the case. (warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1021, 1025-1027 (warrick); california highway patrol v. superior court (2000) 84 cal.app.4th 1010, 1021 [italics omitted].) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying pitchess motion because the records he sought did not eulloqui v. superior court (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 1055, 1063 (eulloqui).) that is because the sole alleged dishonesty by the four sheriffs deputies pertained solely to how defendant injured his foot, an event that happened after the charged crimes (that is, the car-jackings, attempted carjacking and felony evasion) were completed and thus could not alternate scenario posits that the officers made post-offense lies, such lies are not material within the meaning of pitchess unless constitutes a plausible factual scenario of officer misconduct warranting review of confidential personnel records would abrogate the strong ring of protection the legislature and courts id. at p. 1069; giovanni b. v. superior court (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 312, 319, 321 [allegations thother observations concerning generally warrick, suprarequirement excludes requests for officer information that are irrelevant to the pepeople v. hustead (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 410, 416-417 [allegations that officers lied about 8 charge].) defendant offers two arguments in response. first, he argues that the trial court abused its discretion because it applied the wrong legal standard when it indicated, just minutes later, the court stated tha the correct legal standarda lack of materiality due to the alleged misconduct not constituting a defense to the chargesdoes not invalidate the coualso used the proper phrasing. how defendant injured his foot are still material because they occurred before other discussed the charged crimes en route from the scene of the arrest to the hospital to the police station. we need not entertain this contention because defendant did not include these facts in his alternative factual scenario in his pitchess motion; he cannot do so for the first time on appeal. (see people v. cervantes (2004) 118 cal.app.ruling based on the facts known to the trial court at the time of e made these additional allegations in a supplemental pitchess motion except that the trial court effectively prohibited the filing of such a motion by declaring it would be untimely. the record does not support this suggestion, as it shows only that the trial court refused to grant a trial continuance to allow defendant to file a 9 supplemental pitchess motion; the court said only that the motion may be untimely, but did not definitively rule on that point. ii. exclusion of post-arrest statement a. pertinent facts soon after his arrest, defendant spoke with huntington park police officers. after being advised of his miranda rights, right to remain silent. the officers ignored his request and continued to ask him questions. in response to those questions, interest in [him]im sthe test and carjacking one was the only way not to create a record of the cars he was using; that the carjacking victims were od moving out of the way. in response to an objection by the people, the trial court -arrest sta[ed]namely, because the argument that the statement was offered merely as circumstantial evidence of his state of mind (and hence not hearsay). the court went on to find that the post-arrest statement was inadmissible hearsay because neither the declaration against penal interest nor prior consistent statement exceptions to the hearsay rule applied. the court nevertheless 10 made clearon multiple occasionsthat the people would not be defense. b. analysis defendant argues that the trial court erred in excluding his post-arrest statement and that this exclusion prejudiced him. we review evidentiary rulings for an abuse of discretion (people v. powell (2018) 5 cal.5th 921, 961), an erroneous ruling is prejudicial if, absent that error, it is reasonably probable that the defendant would have obtained a more favorable verdict. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836-837.) 1. the evidentiary ruling the trial court abused its discretion in excluding defend-arrest statement. defendant and the people disagree over whether that statement is hearsay or not. as is pertinent here, an out-of-stat  1200, subd. (a).) defendant argues that he was not seeking to admit his post-arrest statement for its truth (namely, that he was a secret governmental operative on a training mission) but rather as circumstantial evidence of his state of mind (namely, that he was delusional). (people v. ortiz (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 377, 390 (ortiz) state, but is merely circumstantial evidence of that state of mind, the people counter that defenda-arrest statement was being proffered for its truth because it only believed he was a governmental operative on a training mission. (see people v. hopson (2017) 3 cal.5th 424, 432 [to be 11 nonhearsay purpose regardless of whether the jury believes the people v. whitt (1990) 51 cal.3d 620, 643, re an we need not resolve this threshold question because the trial court erred in excluding the statement whether it was nonhearsay or hearsay. if it was nonhearsay, the statement by definition falls outside the hearsay rule and should not have been excluded on that ground. (ortiz, supra, 38 cal.app.4th at p. 390.) if it was hearsay, the statement falls within the state of mind hearsay exception. that exception applia statement  1250, subd. (a)(1).) defendan-arrest statement was a was delusional) and was offered to support his mental defect defense that, if accepted, would negate the specific intent elements of the felony evasion count (n[ed] a substantial and unjustifiable risk of harm.3 to be sure, the state of mind 3 it is possible to prove felony evasion without the second specific intent element as set forth above (veh. code,  2800.2), 12 -arrest statement was trustworthy because it largely echoed the statements defendant made to his sister and one of his college teachers in the days and months prior to january 2017. those pre-january 2017 statements are themselves trustworthy because they were statements to friends or family made when defendant had no motive to lie (people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 635 [noting that such statements are trustworthy]), and those statements corroborate one another as well as -arrest statement (people v. lancaster (2007) 41 cal.4th 50, 83 [corroborated statements are more trustworthy]). what is more, -arrest statement vividly illustrates that defendant did not offer up his delusional statement freely; to the contrary, defendant tried to invoke his right to remain silent, and the interviewing officers would not another badge that the statement eventually drawn out of him was trustworthy. -arrest statement was not trustworthy because over an hour elapsed between the time of his arrest and his post-arrest statement and because defendant that defendant had ample time to concoct an untrustworthy story. we are unpersuaded because this argument ignores that defendant made similar delusional statements to his sister and but the jury was instructed on a second specific intent element, and the people have not objected to that instruction. 13 teacher before the date of the crimes; these prior statements would seem to foreclose the notion that defendant made up his 2. prejudice -arrest statement was prejudicial to the felony evasion count. as noted above, specific intent elements of the felony evading count. (e.g., people v. schumacher (1961) 194 cal.app.2d 335; calcrim no. 2181; mental defect . . . is admissible . . . on the issue of whether or not defendant testified that he labored under the delusion that he was participating in a training exercise for a secret government agency at the time he took the cars and evaded law enforcement, but did not clearly articulate that the victims and bystanders was being truthful in his testimony was critical to his defense. although his sister and teacher testified that defendant had made similar delusional remarks prior to the day he committed these acts iown post-arrest statementmade almost immediately after his arrest and that mirrored his pre-crime statementswould have been especially powerful evidence corroborating and clarifying his trial testimony. (e.g., people v. torres (1964) 61 cal.2d 264, 267-268 was prejudicial].) the prejudice flowing from the absence of this corroborative and clarifying evidence was only exacerbated by the t exclusionary ruling. although the trial court had specifically and 14 repeatedly told the prosecutor the prosecutor to -arrest statement by arguing that , the th[e] dayn a secret government where, as here, the court excludes critical corroborative evidence and the prosecutor violates a court order by capitalizing on that exclusion in a way that ignores the actual facts, the exclusion is prejudicial. the people offer one further argument in response. the ed carjacking counts, the people begin, necessarily rested on its acceptance of defendant guilty of evading the police, the people continue, post-arrest statement) is harmless because its admission would not, with reasonable probability, lead to a different verdict. this argument -arrest statement--unlike his trial testimony--belief that the motorists and pedestrians he encountered were all exclusion of the post-arrest statement therefore kept from the jury evidence evasion, such that defense as to the evading count at the first trial does not portend 15 it is reasonably probable it would do the same had the post-arrest statement been admitted. disposition the judgment is reversed and remanded for the trial court to consider whether to reduce the conviction to the lesser included offense of misdemeanor evasion or to set the case for retrial. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, acting p.j. ashmann-gerst _________________________, j. chavez 