 filed 7/24/19 p. v. gray ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. hasani lamont gray, defendant and appellant. b289625 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba463739) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, katherine mader, judge. affirmed. aurora elizabeth bewicke, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant and appellant hasani lamont gray of possession of cocaine for sale and possession of methamphetamine for sale, and the trial court sentenced him to three years in county jail. on appeal, gray contends: (1) his constitutional rights to due process and confrontation were violated individually and cumulatively as a result of (a) the trial in asking too many leading questions, which gray argues allowed the prosecution to improperly present facts not in evidence; and (c) ineffective assistance of defense counsel in not objecting questions; (2) this court should conduct an independent review of hearing conducted pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess); and (3) due process and equal protection require reversal of the court operations assessments, criminal conviction assessments, and restitution fine. we affirm. procedural background an information charged gray with possession of cocaine for sale (health & saf. code,  11351; count one),1 possession of methamphetamine for sale ( 11378; count two), and possession 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the health and safety code. 3 of marijuana for sale ( 11359, subd. (b); count three).2 the information further alleged gray previously sustained two prior prison term enhancements (pen. code,  667.5, subd. (b)).3 the jury convicted gray of counts one and two, and the court sentenced him to three years in county jail, consisting of a three-year midterm on count one. 4 gray timely appealed. factual background on the evening of december 2, 2017, several officers of the los angeles police department, including officer alba mendez, were positioned on a rooftop in skid row on the look-out for narcotics activity. using binoculars, officer mendez observed gray engage in three hand-to-hand narcotics transactions over the course of approximately 30 minutes. in each instance, mendez observed gray reach into his pocket and give the buyer a small white circular object in exchange for money. one of the 2 count three was later dismissed in the interest of justice under penal code section 1385. 3 the information also alleged gray sustained two prior convictions within the meaning of section 11370.2, subd. (a), but statutory changes in the law eliminated the impact of these priors. (see health & saf. code,  11370.2, as amended by senate bill no. 180 (2017-2018 reg. sess.)) 4 the court sentenced him to a concurrent three-year upper term on count two and did not impose sentence on the prison priors. 4 individuals immediately took the white object gray gave her and smoked it. officer frank vidaurafter detaining gray, officer vidaure recovered a plastic baggy containing an off-white substance, a closed metal container containing six bindles of a crystalline substance, and approximately $182. the parties stipulated the plastic baggy contained .31 grams of cocaine base and the closed metal container contained 1.15 grams of methamphetamine. officer mendez testified these were usable amounts of each substance. gray did not testify or present witnesses on his behalf. discussion 1. the error was harmless -for answers from [officers mendez and vidaure] without first laying any proper -direct, the prosecutor asked officer mendez 35 substantive questions, only two of which in total, defense counsel made eight objections on leading grounds. the court sustained three and overruled five. defense counsel did not request a continuing objection to the use of 5 ding questions, it would have been futile for counsel to present further objections gray thus contends his constitutional rights to due process abuse of discretion in erroneously overruling objections to the asking too many leading questions, and (c) ineffective assistance of counsel in not objecting more frequently to the use of leading questions. he argues any of these three individual errors requires reversal, as does the cumulative effect of the errors. assuming, without deciding whether, the trial court, prosecution, or defense counsel erred by asking or allowing leading questions, we find any error harmless. this was a simple case. officer mendez observed gray engage in three drug transactions over the course of 30 minutes. officer vidaure detained gray and found him in possession of two substances, which the parties stipulated were cocaine and methamphetamine. officer mendez testified gray possessed usable amounts of each substance. these facts established the elements of each offense and were properly introduced in evidence without the use of leading questions. we therefore find any purported error harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman).) leading questions improperly bolstered the credibility of officers mendez and vidaure. as noted above, the critical evidence establishing the elements of the offenses was properly adduced through non-leading questions and a stipulation. 6 in addition to finding the purported errors harmless under chapman, we also find them harmless when viewed people v. rivas (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 1410, 1437.) 2. pitchess discovery gray filed a pretrial discovery motion pursuant to pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d 531, seeking the discovery of confidential personnel records for los angeles police department officers mendez, leon, vidaure, and correa. on the date of the pitchess motion with respect to all four officers, her real concern was with officers mendez and leon. in light of this comment, the court found good cause to conduct an in camera interview of the los personnel records of officers mendez and leon. the court held the in camera hearing and concluded there was no discoverable evidence to disclose. gray asks us to independently review the transcript of the pitchess hearing. the attorney general does not oppose this repitchess (people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, 424.) we have reviewed the pitchess transcript and find no abuse of discretion in the trial 7 3. gray has forfeited his challenge to the assessments and restitution fine the trial court imposed two $40 court operational assessments (pen. code,  1465.8, subd. (a)), two $30 criminal conviction assessments (gov. code,  70373), and the minimum $300 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)(1)). in supplemental briefing, gray challenges the imposition of the assessments and restitution fine on due process and equal protection grounds. relying on people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157 (dueas), he asks that we reverse the assessments and impose a stay of the restitution fine until the people prove he has the ability to pay. gray did not object in the trial court based on inability to pay. he argues the issues are not forfeited on appeal because dueas had not yet been decided when he was sentenced, and consequently any objection in the trial court would have been futile. the attorney general argues gray has forfeited the arguments. our colleagues in division eight of this appellate district recently addressed this issue and found that failure to object in the trial court resulted in forfeiture of this issue, and we agree with their analysis and holding. (people v. frandsen (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 1126, 1153-1155 (frandsen).) nothing foreclosed gray from making the same request for an ability to pay hearing in the trial court as the defendant in dueas made. (dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at p. 1162.) as frandsen points out: dueas was foreseeable. dueas frandsen, supra, 33 cal.app.5th at p. 1154.) we therefore reject grargument that any objection would have been futile. 8 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports currey, j. we concur: manella, p. j. willhite, j. 