 filed 8/28/19 p. v. ruth ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kendrick jamar ruth, defendant and appellant. b289124 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na105943) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, judith l. meyer, judge. conditionally reversed in part and remanded with directions. renee rich and james m. crawford, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction a jury convicted defendant and appellant kendrick jamar ruth of elder adult abuse likely to produce great bodily harm or death (pen. code,  368, subd. (b)(1))1 and found that his victim was 70 years of age or older and suffered great bodily injury ( 368, subd. (b)(2)(b)). the jury further found that defendant suffered a prior conviction charged as a serious and/or violent felony under the three strikes law ( 667, subd. (d); 1170.12, subd. (b)) and as a serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)) and that he served two prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for 16 years. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred in declining to hold a second competency hearing; remand is necessary to allow the court to exercise its discretion to strike his section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement; remand is necessary to allow the court to determine whether he would benefit from mental health diversion under section 1001.36; clerical errors must be corrected; and remand is necessary so the court can bility to pay fines and assessments pursuant to people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157 (dueasconviction and remand for a hearing to determine his eligibility for a mental health diversion program pursuant to section f that issue, the trial court is also to consider whether to exercise its section 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 (a)(1) enhancement and is to correct the clerical errors in the abstract of judgment. ii. background at the time of his testimony on october 18, 2017, luis perez was 83 years old. on february 28, 2017, he was walking on the sidewalk along willow street in long beach when defendant walked about 10 or 15 steps past him. defendant then turned around, approached perez, and punched him in the head. the blow knocked perez unconscious and he fell into the street. jesus manrique, who witnessed defendant strike perez, ran across the street to help perez. manrique and another person picked up perez and moved him from the street. andrew williams, who also saw defendant strike perez, also went to hospital. he experienced a lot of pain and had swelling on the top of his head. he was released from the hospital later that day. iii. discussion a. competency hearing defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion when it declined to hold a second competency hearing. we disagree. 4 1. background on march 10, 2017, prior to trial, defense counsel declared pursuant to section 1368. the trial court suspended proceedings. on april 3, 2017, the mental health court appointed dr. phani tumu, pursuant to evidence code section 730, to examine ddr. tumu interviewed defendant at the twin towers correctional facility on april 22, 2017, and prepared a report dated may 3, 2017, that he submitted to the mental health court.2 in the interview, defendant gave his correct age and date of birth to dr. tumu. defendant said that he was not prescribed medications and had not taken them in the past. he denied having been previously psychiatrically hospitalizedhe was housed on the psychiatric floor because his lawyer requested itor having any psychiatric symptoms. he also denied using alcohol and/or illicit substances, although his legal history suggested otherwise. to the long beach court where he was told the charge was a misdemeanor. he pleaded not guilty and said he would take his case to trial as necessary. defendant reported that a witness had told the police that defendant was not the perpetrator. defendant would not consider a plea 2 we granted the attorney g 5 tumu that he would work with his public defender and described work the attorney was performing on his behalf. r. good eye contact. he was awake, alert and oriented. the defendant was calm and pleasant; he did not appear distracted by internal preoccupation. [his] speech was of a normal rate, spontaneous, with a normal latency to response. he was linear and goal-directed in his thought process. the defendant did not endorse auditory/visual hallucination and paranoid/grandiose delusions were not elicited. his mood was euthymic and his affect was constricted. his insight and judgment were impaired. noted defendant had been arrested for driving under the influence, possession of phencyclidine, public intoxication, possession of a narcotic substance, and possession of marijuana while driving. dr. tumu stated that the use of alcohol can cause poor judgment and disinhibition and the use of stimulants can cause symptoms similar to a manic phase of bipolar disorder. methamphetamine use can cause psychotic symptoms like auditory hallucinations and paranoia. phencyclidine use can cause significant maladaptive behavioral changes including judgment. during the interview, defendant did not present with paranoid delusions or other psychotic symptoms like thought disorganization. 6 dr. tumu noted that defendant did not have a psychiatric history that pointed to a primary psychotic disorder. he primary psychotic disorder because of his history of illicit substance use and lack of objective signs of a psychotic disorder dr. tumu opined that defendant was competent to stand trial. defendant understood the various courtroom personnel and their roles and the courtroom procedures. he knew there was a witness who might testify against him, but told dr. tumu that that witness (the alleged victim) had not identified him as the assailant. defendant was unaware if there was any evidence in the case, but aware that any evidence and/or witnesses could be used against him if he went to trial. defendant did not know the potential period of incarceration he faced if convicted, but insisted that he was not the assailant. dr. tumu opined that defendant was not suffering from psychiatric symptoms that were inhibiting his decision-making had the ability to rationally assist his attorney in this case. he was not suffering from psychotic symptoms such as thought disorganization or paranoia and was able to provide a linear history of himself. defendant did not exhibit any symptoms of a psychiatric illness that would stop him from moving forward with this case or from working with his attorney. dr. tumu found that defendantof itself, was not due to psychosis. on may 31, 2017, the mental health court found defendant 7 began on october 17, 2017, and the jury rendered its guilty verdict on october 19, 2017. defendant was then tried on the prior conviction allegations. after the prosecution presented its case, defendant stated that he wanted to testify. the trial court asked defense counsel if he wanted to ask defendant questions or have him testimony. testifying about an alleged driving under the influence of alcohol conviction, defendant said that he won $140 million in 2008 in the super lotto, but his family got together and took it ticket. him up for driving under the influence and succeeded in putting him in prison for two years. his family was trying to take his inheritance because he was the only survivor in the family. when defendant was released from prison, his grandfather and the trial court then asked defendant to address the other alleged prior convictionan assault conviction. defendant which they owed him 68 percent. also, he just won $239 million in mega millions. he testified that snoop dogg was his father, halle berry was his mother, and michael jackson was his 8 [] . . . [] my booking number [] . . . [] the jury found true the prior conviction allegations. the november 16, 2017. at the sentencing hearing, defense counsel declared a doubt subsequent telephone conversations with defense counsel. the trial court then had the following conversation with defendant: nt: to finish the case. you aware that the jury found you guilty on the case? all the answersi guilty, and then you were found guilty on the priors. . 9 some of the things that needed to go on. after the case. defendant: i never got a chance to testify, and my you chose not to testify at the time. i never got offered that. happened. the trial court asked defense counsel to approach for an ex parte discussion. at the conclusion of that discussion, the trial court stated that it was not prepared to declare a doubt, but was willing to continue the sentencing hearing to allow defense sentencing hearing to december 13, 2017, the trial court told continued twicehealand held on march 29, 2018. at the sentencing hearing, defense counsel made an oral motion for a new trial asserting that defendant was not competent to stand trial as defendant stopped taking his psychotropic drugs causing him to decompensate 10 throughout the course of trial. among other things, defense jackson, halle berry, and winning the lottery. defense counsel did not present any mental health reports. the trial court denied the motion for a new trial. 2. analysis or adjudged to punishment. ( 1367, subd. (a); pate v. robinson (1966) 383 u.s. 375, 378 . . . .) a defendant is mentally incompetent to stand trial if, as a result of mental disorder or the nature of the criminal proceedings or to assist counsel in the , subd. (a).) the defendant has the burden of proving incompetency by a preponderance of the evidence. ( 1369, subd. (f); people v. medina (1990) 51 cal.3d 870, 881-people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 31 (marshall).) a competency hearing has already been held and the defendant was found to be competent to stand trial, a trial court is not required to conduct a second competency circumstances or with new evimore is required than just bizarre actions or statements by the defendant to raise a doubt of competency. [citations.] in addition, a reviewing court generally gives great deference to a 11 calculated attempt to feign insanity and delay the proceedings, or marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 33.) in marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th 1, the trial court held two in the first hearing, a psychoanalyst opined that the defendant was not competent. the trial court ruled that the defendant failed to meet his burden of proving incompetence. (id. at p. 29.) in the second hearing, the defense and prosecution presented competing wifound the defendant mentally competent to stand trial. (id. at pp. 30-31.) on appeal, the defendant argued the supreme court should reverse his conviction because the trial court did not, sua sponte, make a renewed inquiry into his mental competency during and after the trial after he made statements that raised reasonable doubts about his mental competency. (marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 32.) the defendant supported his statements he made before jury selection about his having large amounts of money and being born in spain; statements he made to the probation officer to the effect that he was a god, that the president and governor were conspiring against him, and that the conspirators would be beheaded; and statements he made after trial about attorneys and other trial participants previously involved in his life, about id. at p. 33.) the supreme court held that it could not say, as a matter 12 second competency hearing. (marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th. at p. 33.) it alone, are not sufficient. (ibid.) accordingly, it concluded, the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it determined that of circumstances. (ibid.) bizarre statements about, among other things, his lottery money, and his parentage did not establish a substantial change of circumstances or new evidence that gave rise to a serious doubt did not abuse its discretion. (marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 33.) b. remand to allow the trial court to exercise its section subdivision (a)(1) enhancement senate bill no. 1393, which became effective on january 1, 2019, amended sections 667 and 1385 to give the trial court discretion to strike five-year sentence enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a) in furtherance of justice. defendant contends that in light of senate bill no. 1393 we should remand this matter to the trial court to allow it to decide whether to strike his section 667, subdivision (a) enhancement. the attorney general agrees as do we. 13 c. pretrial diversion hearing defendant contends that he is entitled to a hearing on mental health diversion under recently enacted section 1001.36 because the legislature intended the statute to apply retroactively. the attorney general counters that the language of subdivisions (a), (b), and (c) of section 1001.36 demonstrates that the legislature intended the enactment to operate prospectively, i.e., the enactment would not apply to cases such as this one in which there has already been an adjudication. our supreme court has granted review to decide whether section 1001.36 applies retroactively. (people v. frahs (2018) 27 cal.app.5th 784, review granted in s252220 (dec. 27, 2018) (frahs).3) because our supreme court will soon have the final word, we will keep our discussion brief. we agree with the outcome in frahs, and as in frahsfinal on appeal and the record affirmatively discloses that he appears to meet at eligibility requirements. we will therefore remand to allow the trial court to determine whether defendant should benefit from diversion under section 1001.36. (frahs, supra, 27 cal.app.5th at p. 791.) 3 wise ordered by the supreme court . . . , a published opinion of a court of appeal in the matter has no binding or precedential 14 d. clerical errors defendant asserts that the abstract of judgment must be modified because it inaccurately states that he was convicted by plea and lists an incorrect date of conviction. further, he contends, the abstract of judgment and sentencing minute order must be corrected to reflect that he received a five-year sentence enhancement under section 368, subdivision (b)(2)(b),4 rather than section 12022.7, subdivision (c), as he was neither charged with nor convicted of violating section 12022.7, subdivision (c). the attorney general agrees the abstract of judgment should be modified to reflect that defendant was convicted by a jury and the correct date of conviction, but disagrees that defendant was not convicted of violating section 12022.7, subdivision (c). the abstract of judgment states that defendant was convicted by plea on march 29, 2018. instead, he was convicted by a jury on october 19, 2017. we order the abstract of judgment modified to correct these errors. (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185 (mitchell).) the sentencing minute order and abstract of judgment state that the trial court imposed a five-year sentence enhancement under section 12022.7, subdivision (c). the amended information charged defendant with violating section 368, subdivision (b)(2) and section 12022.7, subdivision (a). it did not contain an allegation under section 12022.7, subdivision (c). 4 section 368, subdivision (b)(2)(b) provides for a five-year of age or older. 15 section 368, subdivision (b)(2)(b) focuses on the victim of elder abuse section 12022.7, subdivision (c) focuses on the perpetrator of elder abusejury tracked the language in section 368, subdivision (b)(2)(b), accordingly, we order the sentencing minute order and abstract of judgment modified to reflect that defendant was sentenced to a five-year term under section 368, subdivision (b)(2)(b) and not section 12022.7, subdivision (c). (mitchell, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 185.) e. ability to pay fine and assessments at a $300 victim restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a $30 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373, subd. (a)), and a $40 court operations assessment ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)). defendant did not request a hearing to determine whether he was able to pay that fine and those assessments. relying on dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th 1157, defendant contends the trial court erred in ordering him to pay a restitution fund fine and criminal conviction and court operations assessments without conducting a hearing on his ability to pay that fine and those assessments. he contends that we should remand so that the trial court can hold such a hearing. the attorney general argues, among other things, that defendant has 16 forfeited this issue by failing to object to the imposition of the fine and assessments without an ability to pay hearing. an assertedly erroneous ruling of the trial court in that court has (in re sheena k. (2007) 40 cal.4th 875, 880.) this forfeiture doctrine applies where a defendant fails to object to the imposition of fines and fees at sentencing. (see, e.g., people v. aguilar (2015) 60 cal.4th 862, 864; people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 729.) the record demonstrates that defendant is able to work. although defendant was unemployed when the probation report was prepared, the report indicates a varied and apparently computer technician, customer service, home business, laborer, network technician, office worker, phone sales, power technician; years in state prison, a term that should allow him to earn sufficient wages to satisfy his fine and assessments. based on these particular facts, any error in failing to hold an ability to pay hearing was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. johnson (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 134, 139-140.) 17 iv. disposition the judgment is conditionally reversed and the matter is remanded to the trial court with directions to, within 90 days from the remittitur, conduct a diversion eligibility hearing under section 1001.36. if the trial court determines that defendant is not eligible for diversion, then the court shall reinstate the judgment. if the trial court determines that defendant is eligible for diversion but, in exercising its discretion, the court further determines diversion is not appropriate under the circumstances, then the court shall reinstate the judgment. if the trial court determines that defendant is eligible for diversion and, in exercising its discretion, the court further determines diversion is appropriate under the circumstances, then the court may grant diversion. if defendant successfully completes diversion, the court shall dismiss the charge in accordance with section 1001.36, subdivision (e). if, however, defendant does not successfully complete diversion, the trial court shall reinstate the judgment. if the trial court determines that defendant is not eligible for diversion or is eligible but that diversion is not appropriate under the circumstances and reinstates the judgment or if the trial court grants diversion but defendant does not successfully complete diversion, then it is to consider whether to exercise its 18 enhancement under section 1385 and it is to modify the abstract of judgment as set forth above. not to be published in the official reports. kim, j. we concur: rubin, p. j. baker, j. 