filed 5/23/19 p. v. murry ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. damu murry, defendant and appellant. b289380 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya096973) appeal from judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. alan b. honeycutt, judge. affirmed. james edward jones, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 damu murry appeals the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of two counts of felony resisting an executive officer in violation of penal code1 section 69 (counts 5 and 6). the trial court found true the allegation that appellant had suffered one prior serious or violent felony conviction under the three strikes law. ( 667, subds. (b)(j), 1170.12, subd. (b).) the trial court strike allegation and sentenced him to a term of four years in state prison. appellant contends the trial court committed reversible error in batson/wheeler2 motion african-american in the jury venire. we disagree and affirm. factual background on september 29, 2017, around 8:30 p.m., los angeles 911 report of a man hitting a woman who was lying in the street. the caller identified appellant as the man involved in the assault. 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 batson/wheelerbatson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson) and people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheelerjohnson v. california (2005) 545 u.s. 162, 168 (johnson)) in determining of bias against an identifiable group distinguished on racial, people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 1158 (gutierrez)). 3 as deputies beck and seno attempted to detain appellant, he raised a stick over his shoulder in a threatening manner. ignoring orders to put down the stick, appellant advanced toward , causing him to fall to the ground. despite further resistance, appellant was handcuffed and taken into custody. discussion the trial court did not err in dbatson/wheeler motion a. relevant background prospective juror nos. 0189 and 8433 were the only african-americans in the jury venire in this case. defense counsel did not oppose the prosecutor for-cause challenge against prospective juror no. 0189. the trial court excused prospective juror no. 0189 for cause because she clearly stated she cannot be a fair juror. the prosecutor used his next peremptory challenge against prospective juror no. 8433, prompting a defense batson/wheeler motion. prospective juror no. 8433, an engineer whose ex-husband was a corporate attorney, had previously served on a civil jury which had reached a verdict. she reported that she had relatives who had been charged with crimes. her brother, who has mental writing illegal prescriptions. she also had cousins who had been in jail, but she did not know why. felt her family members had been treated fairly by the criminal justice system, prospective juror no. 8433 saidfor the most part. there were some minor things that 4 i think my problem is actually with the attorney. i thought he had bad advice. [] . . . [] he had another attorney on appeal the trial court asked, about what your father went through or [what] any of your relatives went through that would affect the way you see the prospective juror no. 8433 responded, the prospective jur in response to questioning by defense counsel, prospective experience with his lawyer against either of the attorneys in this i know that do 8433 answered, ld be trained to interact with people the prosecutor then asked, ould that affect] your opinion as to whether an officer acted prospective juror no. 8433 responded, sometimes they get it right and sometimes they get it wrong. i in support of the batson/wheeler motion, defense counsel pointed out that she was the only remaining african-american on the panel. the trial court found that appellant had made a prima facie showing of discrimination and 5 asked the district attorney to explain his reasons for excusing this prospective juror. 8433] indicated that her brother waswho had mental health issues testimony may come out indicating the way in which mr. murry was acting which may potentially lead a juror to think he may have that on the people. [] she also said her father had illegal i accept-neutral, the trial court denied the batson/wheeler motion. b. legal principles peremptory challenges are designed to be used for any (people v. armstrong (2019) 6 cal.5th 735, 765 (armstrong).) but they are not without limits. both the federal and state constitutions prohibit any challenges to exclude prospective jurors based on race. [citations.] doing so violates both the equal protection clause of the united states constitution and the right to trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community under article i, section 16 of the california constitution. people v. parker (2017) 2 cal.5th 1184, 12101211 (parker); people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 383.) of even one prospective juror for reasons impermissible under batson and wheeler constitutes structural error, requiring reversal.gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) there is, a rebuttable presumption that a peremptory challenge is being exercised properly, and the burden 6 is on the opposing party to demonstrate impermissible discrimination. (parker, at p. 1211; armstrong, at p. 766.) our supreme court has explaino assess whether such prohibited discrimination has occurred, our inquiry under batson/wheeler follows three distinct, familiar steps. first, the party objecting to the strike must establish a prima facie case by showing facts sufficient to support an inference of discriminatory purpose. (johnson[, supra, 545 u.s. at p.] 168.) second, if the objector succeeds in establishing a prima facie case, the burden shifts to the proponent of the strike to offer a permissible, nonbiased justification for the strike. ([ibid.]) finally, if the proponent does offer a nonbiased justification, the trial court must decide whether that justification is genuine or instead whether impermissible discrimination in fact motivated the strike. (ibid.)people v. reed (2018) 4 cal.5th 989, 999.) he ultimate burden of persuasion regarding racial motivation rests with, and never shifts from, the opponent of the strike.(people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 612613; parker, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1211.) this case concerns the third step of the batson/wheeler inquiry; that is, whether the trial court correctly determined that the prosecutor had not engaged in purposeful discrimination in exercising his peremptory challenge to exclude the only african- a substantial evidence analysis. (miller-el v. cockrell (2003) 537 u.s. 322, 339; people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 900.) at the third stage must more likely than not that the challenge was [citation.] this portion of the 7 batson/wheeler inquiry focuses on the subjective genuineness of the reason, not the objective reasonableness.gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) justification need not support a challenge for causetrivial reason, if gen [citation.] a prospective juror may be excused based upon facial expressions, gestures, hunches, and even for arbitrary or idiosyncratic reasons. (people v. malley (2016) 62 cal.4th 944, 975.) the sole concern at this stage is that the reason for exercising the peremptory challenge was sincere and legitimate, that is, nondiscriminatory. (ibid.) the supreme court has observed that the critical question in determining whether a defendant has shown purposeful discrimination at step three s justification for his peremptory strike. at this stage, implausible or fantastic justifications may (and probably will) be found to be pretexts for purposeful discrimination. [citation.] in that instance the issue comes down to whether the trial court s race-neutral explanations to be credible. credibility can be measured by, among other factors, the s demeanor; by how reasonable, or how improbable, the explanations are; and by whether the proffered rationale has some basis in accepted trial strategy.(miller-el v. cockrell, supra, 537 u.s. at pp. 338339; gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1159.) because the trial courts credibility determination may rest in part on contemporaneous observations unavailable to the appellate court, we review that determination . (armstrong, supra, 6 8 cal.5th at pp. 767768; gutierrez, at p. 1159.) the supreme court has recognized that such assessments of credibility and demeanor lie peculiarly within the province of the trial judge, and in the absence of exceptional circumstances, an appellate court should defer to the trial court(snyder v. louisiana (2008) 552 u.s. 472, 477.) such eference is necessary because a reviewing court, which analyzes only the transcripts from voir dire, is not as well positioned as the trial court is to make credibility determinations. [i]f an appellate s finding that a prosecutors race-neutral explanation for his peremptory challenges should be believed, we fail to see how the appellate court nevertheless could find discrimination. the credis explanation goes to the heart of the equal protection analysis, and once that has been settled, there seems nothing left to review. (miller-el v. cockrell, supra, 537 u.s. at pp. 339340.) c. analysis appellant maintains that, because the prosecutor e prospective juror no. 8433 is not supported by the record. we find the nondiscriminatory reasons, which were based answers, were genuine. deferring to determination, we therefore conclude the court properly denied batson/wheeler motion. the district attorney explained that there would likely be played a part in his interactions with police that lead to the charges 9 against him. given such evidence, the prosecutor was reasonably concerned that prospective juror no. adequacy of police training regarding interactions with people suffering from mental health problems might influence her view in addition, tresponses to questions about her criminal prosecution prompted the district attorney to infer that the juror even if the not entirely accurate, the explanation judgment of the trial courts to distinguish bona fide reasons . . . from sham excuses belatedly contrived to avoid admitting acts of not for an improper or class b people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 78.) claim, the record supports a reasonable inference that this prospective juror was skeptical of the police, particularly regarding police interactions with people having mental health issues, and that the criminal justice system may not always treat people fairly. such expressions provide a --neutral justification for striking a prospective juror, requiring no further explanation. (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. based on a broad range of factors indicative of juror partiality, apparently trivial highly speculative it was up to the trial court to assess the genuineness of the s, and we find no basis to 10 that the prosecutor had offered a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason to excuse prospective juror no. 8433. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, p. j. we concur: chavez, j. hoffstadt, j. 