 filed 1/28/19 p. v. simpson ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eddie s. simpson, defendant and appellant. b289434 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma071762) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa m. chung, judge. affirmed and remanded. lillian hamrick, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and stephanie a. miyoshi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 summary defendant eddie s. simpson appeals following his jury conviction of attempted robbery of the first degree (pen. code,  211 & 664).1 defendant admitted a prior residential burglary conviction. the court sentenced defendant to nine years in prison, a term that included a then-mandatory five-year enhancement for the prior serious felony conviction. ( 667, former subd. (a)(1);  1385, former subd. (b).) on appeal, defendant contends the evidence was insufficient to show specific intent to commit robbery. he also contends the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury, sua sponte, on the lesser included offense of attempted theft. and, in supplemental briefing, defendant contends legislation that went into effect on january 1, 2019, ending the statutory prohibition on a trial prior serious felony enhancement, applies and requires a remand for a new sentencing hearing. we find the evidence is sufficient to support the conviction and the trial court had no duty to instruct on attempted theft. accordingly, we affirm the judgment, but we agree that remand whether to strike the prior serious felony enhancement under the new legislation. facts 1. the attempted robbery jamila washington was in the den area of the home she rented in lancaster. her daughter, then nine years old, was in ms. ms. washington 1 further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 did not hear anyone, and opened the door. no one was there. she closed the door and moved to the bathroom adjacent to her bedroom. then e said okay and he sat on (during the time ms. washington lived in the home, the landlord had never sent a security guard to the home.) ms. washington went to the den area asked if the man there, wearing a gray sweatshirt, a black beanie and black pants. as she watched, the man got up and walked away. he was walking slowly, looking at the window where ms. washington was standing. she thought he looked angry, and his eyes were big. was at the bathroom window with her mother. was watching the movie, and went to tell her mother. she heard the man asked him what he wanted. 4 later that same day, in the afternoon, ms. washington was scared, and i did not know if he was going to come back the night, at about 3:00 p.m., the doorbell rang, and again no one was there. ms. washington went back to what she was doing, and any minutes later, my daughter her daughter had heard the doorbell ring, and saw someone washington called 911. then ms. washington . . . to the living room window , get o me it seemed like he screen or, you know, trying to it felt to me like he was trying to it appeared to her that the man was attempting to remove the screen. ms. w[h]e was like pulling, pulling the window, trying atever. [] and he he when the man ms. washington recognized the man at the window was there at 1:00 a.m. so i know that hwhile this was happening, ms. 5 her daughter was scared, and it seemed to her that her mother was also scared. ms. washington then ran to her bedroom. from the the street, and i seen that ms. washington identified defendant as the man she saw that day. she had never seen him before. deputy sheriff chantelle telles arrived at the scene at about 3:15 p.m. other officers had already pinned defendant to the ground in the drivewaycontacted by [ms. washington] ms. washington . . . very upset. she was kind of jumping after talking with ms. washington in the porch area, deputy telles turned her attention to a black backpack, closed, papers, all sorts of like there was a gold lock that we had taken out and [ms. washington] partner pulls out a handgun, what appeared to look like a handgun - after further investigation, deputy telles determined the item that appeared to be a handgun was a replica. according to deputy telles, there is typically an orange tip on an imitation firearm, but the one in the backpack had none. by just looking at 6 the replica without other items found in the black bag were a dark blue hooded sweater, a black beanie, two gloves, and a bandana. deputy telles inspected the kitchen window, and found no she took a photograph of a side [ms. washington] would washington later testified she had the gold lock on th deputy telles searched defendant. she found on his person a document crumpled . . . like somebody would find a piece of paper and kind ms. washington. ms. washington recognized the formconcerning repairs). she later testified that . . . date of entrance on the form was june 12, 2017. ms. washington had taken the form inside the house, and she threw it away after the repairs were completed in june. deputy erative at it appeared to deputy telles that defendant was under the influence of methamphetamine. as she was taking defendant to her patrol 7 deputy telles took defendant to a hospital for medical he said lawanda simpson) and phone number. on the day of the incident, ms. washington sent a text to her landlord, ms. siknow somebody named eddie?just explaining to her what was going on because i dhe was and . . . i just figured it is her house, she had should [sic] when she saw defendant during these 2. the trial defendant was charged by information with attempted first degree residential robbery (a felony), and with unlawful alteration of an imitation firearm (a misdemeanor). the information also alleged prior conviction of residential burglary as a strike prior, a serious felony prior, and a prison prior. in addition to the facts we have related, evidence adduced at trial included the following. lawanda simpson testified showned the house ms. washington and her daughter occupied. she kept a set of keys to the rented house in an unlocked drawer in a bedroom of her home. on june 8, 2017, she asked defendant home. she forgot to ask him if he had done so. the repairs were performed the following tuesday. defendant never worked as a reason to send him there in july. defendant lived with ms. simpson8 wa, ms. simpson received a message from ms. washington in the afternoon of july 24, 2017. she found out her son had been arrested on that day, while she was at work. she did not remember having a phone conversation with him while he was in at some point, ms. simpson had conversations with defendant about what happened that day. she asked him why he h]e said someone was ms. simpson testified that defendant did not tell home, and he did not tell her that he asked to be let in because he was scared. ny, the prosecutor played a recording of a telephone call defendant made to his mother on july 25, 2017 (the day after his arrest). on the telephone call, ms. simpson asked him why he went to the rental property at 1:30 in the morning, and he said that someone was chasing him. ms. simpson asked him why he went back at 3:00 in the and i seen the same people that chased me the day before; and i e else to runme. so i felt, i felt that was yours, and i was running from the, from the people that was chasing me. . . . .to tell ms. washington 9 washington to come to court on told his mother i was walking through the neighborhood. i was going to the 3. the verdict and sentence the jury found defendant guilty of attempted robbery in the first degree, and not guilty of unlawful alteration of an imitation firearm. on april 13, 2018, defendant waived his right to a court trial and admitted his prior conviction of residential burglary, both under the law and under the serious felony enhancement statute ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). romero motion to strike the residential burglary conviction.2 the court observed s] enhancement the court ultimately denied the romero motion, stating: do acknowledge as part mitigation that, as he stands here, he is currently young, 27 years old. [] the particular facts as it came out at the jury trial . . . were somewhat unusual. they home. nevertheless, in balancing certain aggravating factors, the two occasions, the late hours of the evening, the victim along with her young minor daughter, the court found a particular vulnerability there. it was clearly a very frightening experience for them 2 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero). 10 defendant was placed on probation and a recent dui, the court observed the strike prior had a gang allegation attached to it, stated: b]alancing both the aggravating, mitigating circumstances, considerations of public safety, [the court] would decline to exercise its discretion to after a further exchange with defense counsel, the court minor, as i mentioned with the drug-related offenses and the d.u.i., we have a pattern of increasing serious conduct. so my decision would still stand in terms of not exercising the the court then explained its tentative sentencepgoing to be a separate enhancement[,] in terms of trying to select crimes of increasing seriousness. the court does not find him to be a suitable candidate for probation. however, the court finds there is also, as noted, with his young age, somewhat unusual set gh the mitigating. and then my indicated would be for the mid term, with the understanding, of course, that the enhancement would occur for the strike, along with the 667(a)(1), which i have no discretion to strike, which would be a consecutive five years after hearing argument from defense counsel for the low outweigh the aggravating nature and [the court] believes that the the court sentenced defendant to nine years (the midterm of two years, doubled for the strike ( 667, subds. (b)-(i) & 11 1170.12), plus the five-year enhancement for his prior serious felony conviction ( 667, former subd. (a)(1))). the court also awarded custody and conduct credits and made further orders not at issue on this appeal the allegation under section 1385. discussion 1. evidence of specific intent to commit robbery the principles governing judicial review of a claim of insufficient evidence have been repeated many times. [t]he court must review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.people v. ghobrial (2018) 5 cal.5th 250, 277 (ghobrial.) people v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 294.the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1251.) if the circumstances reasonably justify the trier of facts findings, the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a (ghobrial, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 278, quotations omitted.) robbery is the felonious taking of personal property in the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished by means of force or fear.12 specific intent to commit robbery and a direct, ineffectual act people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 24.) defendant challenges the specific intent element of attempted robbery. he contends it is unreasonable to infer from the evidence we have related that defendant intended to rob ms. washington. instead, he says, the evidence shows he that conclusion, however, would require this court to believe what defendant told his mother, and ignore the evidence supporting a different conclusion precisely what an appellate court may not do. defendant points out he did not demand money, he did not point a gun at the victim, he did not have a motive to commit a . he contrasts his as to preclude any reasonable inference of a specific intent to we do not agree. we are offered no precedent suggesting that the factors defendant cites constitute the universe of circumstances permitting an inference of intent to rob. plainly they do not. (cf. people v. solis (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 1002, 1010 of course, defendant is correct when he says that evidence that merely raises a strong suspicion is not sufficient, and that the trier of fact must be reasonably persuaded to a near certainty, and must have reasonably rejected all that undermines confidence. (in re roderick p. (1972) 7 cal.3d 801, 809.) those principles are applicable in this case as in every 13 that defendant intended to rob ms. washington. defendant repeatedly asserts the evidence merely showed an intent to rob. thus, defendant says, rattling the windows, demanding to be let in, ic goal the inferences to the contrary were reasonable and supported by the evidence. the jury plainly did not believe the claim that defendant tried to get into the house because someone was chasing him and he was frightened. he said nothing of the sort to ms. washington, and instead falsely asserted he was a security guard. moreover, it defies credulity to suggest that someone who is being chased f would, after failing to gain entry, sit on the front porch and then slowly walk away. in short, the jury was entitled to draw the inference that defendant had the specific intent to rob. we will not repeat the evidence we have already described in detail. defendant tried to gain entry on two different occasions, banging on the bathroom window sill and trying to open the kitchen window. the reasons offered for doing so may reasonably be viewed as incredible. defendant had already taken property belonging to ms. washington the gold lock on the side gate, found in his backpack. his backpack also contained gloves and an imitation firearm that looked like the real thing. while none of these facts standing alone is decisive, facts do not stand alone. viewed as a whole, the circumstances reasonably justify the 14 that defendant intended to rob ms. washington. (cf. people v. vizcarra (1980) 110 cal.app.3d 858, 862, 863 [approaching a liquor store with a rifle and attempting to hide when observed by a customer was a sufficient direct act toward the accomplishment by inference from all of the circumstances of the case, [the defendant] has not attempted to argue a lack of intent to commit people v. gilbert (1927) 86 cal.app. 8, 9 [ from the overt act of climbing over a balcony and approaching the doors leading to a bedroom, then dropping from the balcony to escape when the occupants were aroused].) one final note: ms. washington, when asked how she felt when the police did not find defendant after the 1:00 a.m. relying on this testimony, defendant repeatedly asserts that if the victim did not know his intent, neither could the jury. that is patently wrong, ignoring all the surrounding circumstances that were unknown to ms. washington at the time. evidence has no merit. 2. the lesser included offense claim attempted theft is a lesser included offense of attempted robbery. (people v. reeves (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 14, 53.) people v. ramkeesoon (1985) 39 cal.3d 346, 351.) trial court has a duty to instruct the jury sua sponte on all lesser included offenses if there is substantial evidence from which a jury can reasonably conclude the defendant committed the lesser, people v. brothers (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 24, 29 (brothers).) 15 consideration by the people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 201, fn. 8; see people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 162 any justify instruct included offense de novo [citations] considering the evidence in brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 30.) defendant contends we disagree. tinjury to the person or property of the person robbed, or of any relative of his or member of his family. ( 212.) defendant does not actually cite any evidence to show that his actions may not have been sufficient to produce fear in the victim. instead, he cites other cases with other facts, such as a case finding the fear element was satisfied victim to comply with the unlawful demand for his (people v. ramos (1980) 106 cal.app.3d 591, 601-602, disapproved on other grounds in people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 353, fn. 16.) defendant points out that ms. washington was not asked to [defendant] frightened her, he did not do anything to frighten her enough to make her even consider letting him in, much less let meritless claim on its face.3 3 in other words, the assertedly substantial evidence supporting an attempted theft instruction is that actions caused [ms. washington] to even consider 16 ms. [ed] . . . attempts to enter her home to call for emergency police assistance[ed] . . . enafter the first incident because she was afraid he would return people v. brew (1991) 2 the ty drug store, the . . . moved away from the defendant then took money and other items from underneath the open cash register drawer. (id. at p. 103.) the defendant said nothing to the cashier and did not touch her. (ibid.) in those circumstances, the court found the evidence was sufficient to sustain a finding the offense against the cashier was committed through use of fear or intimidation, but that it arguably would support the lack of those elements, because the the shock of somebody reaching and making an unexpected movement toward the cash register drawer. (id. at p. 105.) we fail to see any simithis case, where property in short, no reasonable jury could conclude, on the evidence in this case, that the fear element was not met. accordingly, the court was not required to instruct on attempted theft. letting him in the house, an indication that the level of force or fear he exerted in his demands, the way he shook her window, and his apparent effort to pry open a window was not the sort of fear or force that would accomplish a rob the contention is plainly untenable. 17 3. the five-year enhancement as mentioned at the outsetnine-year sentence included a mandatory enhancement of five years for his prior serious felony conviction. (on april 13, 2018), section 1385, subdivision (b) specified that conviction of a serious felony for purposes of enhancement of a sentence und( 1385, former subd. (b).) effective january 1, 2019, as a result of the enactment of senate bill no. 1393, the prohibition against striking a prior serious felony enhancement was eliminated. now, the court has discretion to strike a prior serious felony in the interest of justice. ( 667, 1385 as amended by stats. 2018, ch. 1013,  1 & 2.) the parties filed supplemental briefing on the effect of amended sections 667 and 1385 on both parties agree, as do we, that the new legislation applies retroactively to (people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 973, citing people v. superior court (lara) (2018) 4 cal.5th 299, 307-308 and in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 744.) the parties disagree, however, on whether remand is necessary. respondent contends remand is unnecesrespondent supports this assertion by pointing out that the court romero motion, and in doing so, stated that the victims were we do not view the romero motion as necessarily indicating the trial court would not have struck the prior serious felony enhancement if it had the discretion to do so. 18 (see people v. almanza (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 1104, 1110-1111 rather than concurrent have struck the firearm enhancement even if it had had the speculation about what a trial court might do on remand is not clearly indicated by considering only the original sentence; people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th a remand is required unless the record shows that the trial court clearly indicated when it originally sentenced the defendant that it would not in any event have stricken a firearm enhancement.) here, the court when it imposed sentence, stated that under section 667, .tells us what the court would have done if it had the discretion to eliminate the five-year enhancement. accordingly, under the new legislation, the case must be remanded to give the court an opportunity to exercise its discretion. disposition the judgment is affirmed. the cause is remanded for the limited purpose of allowing the trial court to exercise its discretion to impose or strike the prior serious felony enhancement and, if appropriate following exercise of that discretion, resentencing defendant accordingly. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. stratton, j. 