filed 8/1/19 p. v. posey ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. shaun p. posey, defendant and appellant. b289590 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka115817) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. bruce f. marrs, judge. affirmed. jason szydlik, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez, theresa a. patterson and william h. shin, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 defendant shaun p. posey was convicted by jury of simple assault (pen. code,  240 [count 1]) and assault with a deadly weapon (a hammer) ( 245, subd. (a)(1) [count 2]). the jury found true the great bodily injury enhancement for count 2 ( 12202.7, subd. (a)). on appeal, defendant contends his conviction of assault with a deadly weapon should be reduced to simple assault, reasoning there is insufficient evidence he used the hammer in a manner likely to cause death or great bodily injury. he also contends the great bodily injury enhancement should be stricken because there is no substantial evidence he broke the . defendant also contends the court erred when it denied his request for a continuance, and claims ineffective assistance of counsel impeach the victim with his preliminary hearing testimony. we affirm. background on june 1, 2017, at approximately 5:00 p.m., richard cota was driving in his 1969 volkswagen in rush hour traffic on a los angeles freeway when he noticed defendant tailgating him. when mr. cota tapped his brakes, defendant became enraged, honking his horn, showing his middle finger, and throwing debris approached a freeway exit, defendant stopped suddenly, causing mr. cota to crash into him. the force of the collision crushed the defendant then sped away down the off-ramp, and mr. cota followed him to a gas station parking lot. ned next. as mr. cota struggled to exit his severely damaged car, 3 defendant retrieved a hammer from his trunk, and rushed toward mr. cota. the video images of the initial contact between defendant and mr. cota were obstructed by a gas pump. defendant pushed mr. cota backwards, with the hammer in his right hand. defendant tackled mr. cota into some bushes in a planter, thrusting the hammer towards mr. cota, and then stomped, kicked, and kneed mr. cota as he lay prone in the bushes. were obstructed from view of the video camera by the bushes during some of the attack. according to mr. cota, he was trying to call 911 when ] in an aggressive manner waving the as mr. cota tried to back away, defendant grabbed him by the collar and pushed him back, and into the planter. before mr. cota fell to the ground, the hammer struck his face. as he was pinned on the ground, he felt the hammer strike his face again. defendant also struck him with his knee and fists. mr. --- a customer testified he saw defendant strike mr. cota three times with a hammer on the upper right side of his body. he had a different view of the attack than the video. the video did not show the hammer strikes obstructed. following the attack, mr. cota was in a great deal of pain. his jaw was dislocated, and he was unable to speak. his teeth were loose, and he had an abrasion on his nose. none of these injuries was caused by the collision; he did not hit his head when the cars collided. he was taken to the hospital by ambulance. x-rays revealed that mr. cota suffered a mandibular fracture to his 4 lower right jawbone. included information about the causes and symptoms of mandibular fractures, and stated that the most common causes of mandibular fracture are car crashes, physical violence, or a fall from a high place. mr. cota was certain that his jaw injury was caused by the attack and not the collision. discussion 1. sufficiency of the evidence defendant contends insufficient evidence supports the assault with a deadly weapon conviction, because the video does not show him swinging the hammer and making contact with mr. face, but only shows him holding the hammer during the assault. he argues the evidence does not establish the hammer was used as a deadly weapon. we disagree. entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) whether substantial evidence supports the decision, not whether (people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 432.) that the evidence could reasonably be reconciled with a finding of innocence or a lesser degree of crime does not warrant a reversal (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 849.) upon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support [the conviction (bolin, at p. 331.) 5 as used in [penal code] section 245, subdivision (a)(1), a used in such a manner as to be capable of producing and likely to produce, death or great bodily injury. [citation.] some . . . objects, such as dirks and blackjacks, have been held to be deadly weapons as a matter of law; the ordinary use for which they are designed establishes their character as such. [citations.] other objects, while not deadly per se, may be used, under certain circumstances, in a manner likely to produce death or great bodily injury. in determining whether an object not inherently deadly or dangerous is used as such, the trier of fact may consider the nature of the object, the manner in which it is used, and all other facts relevant to the issue. (people v. aguilar (1997) 16 cal.4th 1023, 1028-1029). the question is whether the weapon was used in a way that was likely to cause significant or substantial injury. (people v. beasley (2003) 105 cal.app.4th 1078, 1087.) here, the evidence supports the that defendant used the hammer as a deadly weapon. mr. cota and a gas station customer testified that defendant struck mr. cota with the hammer. mr. cota testified the hammer hit his face, and that he suffered a broken jaw, loose teeth, and lacerations to his face. his evidence was not contradicted by the video; many aspects of the attack were obscured by objects in the video. on this record, the jury could reasonably conclude the hammer was used as a deadly weapon. (cf. in re b.m. (2018) 6 cal.5th 528, 536 [no substantial evidence that butter knife was used as a deadly weapon where it was mildly pressed agagainst any vulnerable or exposed part of the body such as head, 6 face or neck].) defendant next contends the great bodily injury enhancement is not supported by substantial evidence, reasoning jaw with the hammer. penal code section 12022.7, subdivision (a) [a]ny person who personally inflicts great bodily injury on any person . . . in the commission of a felony or attempted felony shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of imprisonment in the state prison for three years.[g]reat bodily physical injury. (id., subd. (f).) the same evidence discussed ante substantiates the jaw, the jury could plainly conclude that defendant inflicted great bodily injury upon mr. cota during the commission of the assault. 2. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant contends his conviction must be reversed because his attorney failed to impeach mr. cota with his preliminary hearing testimony. at the preliminary hearing, mr. cota was asked to describe [a]t that time i had cuts and x-rays that i had a fracture in my jaw . . . at trial, mr. cota testified that he exclaimed that defendant broke his jaw during the attack. to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, defendant must show both deficient performance and prejudice. (people v. hart 7 appeal fails to disclose why counsel acted or failed to act in the was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory explanation . . . id. at pp. 623-624.) one explanation seems obvious to us. it was likely more damaging to impeach mr. cota than to allow his testimony to stand. mr. cota testified he talked normally before defendant pushed him into the planter, whereas after the attack, he could not speak, his jaw was dislocated, and he had loose teeth. if counsel had tried to impeach him, it is likely there would have been even more testimony by mr. cota repeating and elaborating on how his jaw was injured in the attack. moreover, we can discern no possible prejudice on this record. t 3. continuance the case was set for trial on march 7, 2018. at a march 5, 2018 readiness hearing, the people announced ready for trial. defendant sought a continuance, arguing he had only recently subpoenaed mr. creceived them that the records were not subpoenaed sooner, and that defendant would like to hire a medical expert to evaluate the records, and needed to file a request with the court for funds to do so. defendant[d]ue to recently counsel requires more time to evaluate said records, discuss them with defendant posey and determine whether a forensic medical expert should be retained or appointed to testi 8 the trial court denied the request for a continuance, finding that counsel had been dilatory. during sentencing, defendant represented, for the first time, he had sought the records . . . that said the fracture might have been caused by impact with the steering wheel as opposed to being struck with a a continuance pursuant to penal code section 1050 may only be granted for good cause. (people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 450.) (ibid.) a court abuses its the bounds of reason, all circumstances being considered. (people v. beames (2007) 40 cal.4th 907, 920.) we find no abuse of discretion here. defendant never told the court before trial why he needed a medical expert or what material evidence an expert might offer. it was not until sentencing that counsel said an expert might opine the jaw injury was caused by the collision and not the gas station attack. that was never suggested during the hearing on the motion to continue, by which time the case was old and the trial date was imminent. defendant has not shown prejudice. disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, acting p. j. we concur: stratton, j, wiley, j. 