 filed 12/20/18 p. v. lopez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rosendo enrique lopez, defendant and appellant. b289172 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba164417) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, mildred escobedo, judge. affirmed. wiliam j. baker for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and christopher g. sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 rosendo enrique lopez (true name rigoberto uribe martinez) appeals from an order denying his motion to set aside his prior conviction and guilty plea based on the failure of defense counsel to advise him of the immigration consequences of his plea (pen. code,  1016.5, 1473.7). we affirm. background i. plea and conviction on april 16, 1998, the people charged lopez by information with possession for sale of cocaine base (health & saf. code,  11351.5). counsel was appointed for him, and he pleaded not guilty. on may 14, 1998, lopez changed his plea to guilty in exchange for an agreed-upon sentence of three years formal for the may 14, 1998 hearing indicates that lopez was advised of the immigration consequences of his plea. january 25, 2001, he was sentenced to four years in state prison. after his release from prison, he was deported to mexico, but he returned to the united states. ii. motion to set aside plea and conviction on january 29, 2018, lopez filed a penal code section 1473.7 (section 1473.7) motion to set aside his plea and conviction. in his supporting declaration, he stated: t one of the court hearings, the attorney told me he had arranged a good deal for me. the attorney told me that i should plead guilty and that i probably [would] be reinstated on probation. at the time i 3 was on probation because of a prior drug conviction. the attorney did not tell me that a drug conviction could get me deported or prevent me from legalizing my immigration status in the attorney went over a form with him, but lopez added: understood i was pleading guilty and would be sentenced to probation. i do not remember anyone at the court warning me about the immigration con now, in 2018, lopez is married to a united states citizen, and they have two children who are citizens. he is employed and claims he has been clean and sober for many years. he wants to become a lawful permanent resident of the united states but is prevented from doing so by his 1998 felony drug conviction. he y conviction in this case would result in my deportation and lifetime inadmissibility, i would never have pleaded guilty. i would have tried to get another iii. hearing and denial of motion at the march 5, 2018 l advised of the immigration consequences of his plea. apparently, the trial court was referring to the transcript of the may 14, 1998 plea hearing.1 his rights 1 that transcript was not provided to us as part of the complete record on appeal. (see jameson v. desta (2018) 5 cal.5th 594, 608-609; uniroyal chemical co. v. american 4 you are hereby advised your plea today may have the consequences of deportation, exclusion from admission to the understood the sentencing consequences the prosecutor explained. at the may 14, 1998 plea hearingcitizen u.s. you will be denied naturalization which means that you cadenied amnesty and work privileges pursuant to the laws of the opez said he understood. after reading these portions of the transcript in open court, s section 1473.7 motion. discussion section 1473.7, subdivision (a)(1), provides in pertinent conviction . . . is legally invalid due to a prejudicial error vanguard corp. (1988) 203 cal.app.3d 285, 302.) based on our conclusion below that lopez in any event failed to meet his burden of establishing entitlement to relief, we need not address 5 defend against, or knowingly accept the actual or potential adverse immigration consequences of a plea of guilty or nolo the person moving to vacate a conviction bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, grounds for relief. (id., subd. (e)(1).) we apply de novo review . [citation.] a defenmixed question of fact question independently. [citations.] we accord deference to the trial courevidence in the record, but exercise our independent judgment in performance and resulting prejudice to the defendant. (people v. ogunmowo (2018) 23 cal.app.5th 67, 76.) the transcripts of the plea proceedings, which the trial clearly showed that lopez was advised of the immigration consequences of his plea. he told the court he understood these advisements. appeal. instead, he offers his own declaration, executed [20] years after he pled guilty, wherein he claims his attorney never explained the immigration consequences of his guilty plea and he did not understand he would be deported if he pled guilty.(people v. perez (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 818, 830.) this is insufficient to meet his burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that he is entitled to relief under section 1473.7. 6 (id. at p. 829; see also people v. gonzalez (2018) 27 cal.app.5th 738, 753.) lopez claims him of the immigration consequences of his plea deprived him of the effective assistance of counsel, because if he had been ther dea in people v. ogunmowo, supra, 23 cal.app.5th 67, the defendant submitted an affidavit from the attorney who represented him at the plea hearing. the attorney acknowledged that he failed to fully investigate the immigration consequences id. at p. 73.) the defendant stated in his declaration that he relied on this wrong advice in deciding to plead guilty. (id. at p. 78.) we concluded the fact the trial court advised the defendant of the immigration consequences of his plea did not prevent the defendant from establishing that he was deprived of the effective assistance of counsel and entitled to reversal of his guilty plea. (id. at pp. 80-81.) here, unlike in ogunmowo, lopez failed to obtain an affidavit from his former attorney attesting to a failure to properly advise lopez of the immigration consequences of his plea. lopez simply stated that his attorney did not properly as we explained in ogunmowo, reversal for ineffective assistance of counsel requires a showing of prejudice. the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outc 7 performance deprived him of a trial by causing him to accept a plea, the defendant can show prejudice by demonstrating a would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to . . courts should not upset a plea solely because of post hoc assertions from a defendant about how he judges should instead look to contemporaneous evidence to substantiate (people v. ogunmowo, supra, 23 cal.app.5th at p. 78.) lopez offered no such evidence here. additionally, [t]here is no indication in the record that the prosecution was willing to agree to an immigration safe counsel did not attempt to negotiate such a disposition. instead, [lopez] merely asks us to presume he did not do so . . . . we cannot make any such presumption. an appellant has the burden of establishing, based on the record on appeal and based on facts, not speculation, that counsel rendered ineffective people v. perez, supra, 19 cal.app.5th at pp. 830-831; see also people v. olvera (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 1112, 1118.) lopez has not met this burden.2 2 should be affirmed because lopez failed to file his motion with section 1473.7. the trial court made no finding as to diligence and, in adenial of his motion on the merits. 8 disposition the order is affirmed. not to be published johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. bendix, j. 