 filed 5/15/19 p. v. medina ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. antonio medina, defendant and appellant. b290264 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba441899) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. stephen a. marcus, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. c. matthew missakian, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and michael katz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant antonio medina (defendant) appeals from his murder conviction, asserting as follows: the trial court incorrectly instructed the jury regarding malice and voluntary manslaughter; the trial court erred in failing to properly instruct the jury regarding premeditation and deliberation; the trial court gave an inadequate response to jury questions; the trial court asked improper questions of the defense expert; the trial court erroneously excluded evidence of methamphetamine in the of prior conviction allegations were not made knowingly and voluntarily; the cumulative effect of all the asserted errors was to deny defendant a fair trial; and the matter should be remanded to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the five-year enhancement imposed under penal code section 667, subdivision (a).1 we remand to give the trial court the opportunity to exercise its discretion under section 667, subdivision (a) and section 1385. finding no merit to defendants remaining contentions, we affirm the judgment. background defendant was charged with the murder of kassandra o., in violation of section 187, subdivision (a). the information alleged that defendant used a sledgehammer, a deadly weapon within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). it was also alleged that defendant had a prior serious or violent felony conviction within the meaning of sections 667, subdivisions (b) througfelony conviction was also alleged pursuant to section 667, 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 3 subdivision (a)(1). it was further alleged that defendant had suffered three prior convictions resulting in prison custody within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). a jury found defendant guilty of first degree murder, and found true that defendant used a sledgehammer. defendant admitted the prior convictions, and on may 16, 2018, the trial court sentenced him to a total prison term of 59 years to life. the sentence was comprised of 25 years to life for murder, doubled as a second strike, plus consecutive enhancements of five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a), an additional one year due to the use of a deadly weapon, pursuant to section 12022, subdivision (b)(1), and a consecutive one-year enhancement for each of the three prior convictions resulting in prison terms. defendant was given 889 actual days of presentence custody credit, plus conduct credits of 133 days. defendant was ordered to pay mandatory fines and fees, as well as a payment of $5,000 to the victim compensation board. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal from the judgment. prosecution evidence beverly lo and jose velasco (lo and velasco) lived in a duplex on sydney drive with their children and other relatives. they rented a room with a bathroom built into the garage to jose sarabia and emily smith (sarabia and smith). the main entry to the converted garage was through a pedestrian door that opened into a workspace and storage area where velasco kept his tools. lo and velasco had known defendant for several years before november 20, 2015 (november 20), and were aware that defendant and kassandra had been a relationship for about two 4 years. velasco had permitted defendant to occasionally stay overnight in the garage, though lo testified that she did not like him there. during the week prior to november 20, lo had heard defendant arguing with kassandra in the driveway as they walked back toward the garage. more than once, lo heard him sarabia, also acquainted with defendant and kassandra, often saw them at the house both together and separately. a day or two before november 20, while in his room, sarabia heard defendant and kassandra arguing about defendant wanting to cut hair, which kassandra did not want. kassandra sarabia routinely left for work at 3:30 or 4:00 a.m., and occasionally saw defendant sleeping in the garage when he left, and once sarabia also saw kassandra sleeping in the garage with defendant. on the morning of november 20, defendant was sleeping there alone when sarabia left for work. sarabia had last seen defendant sleeping in the garage two or three days earlier. when sarabia returned home from work at about 1:00 p.m., kassandra was in his room talking to smith. he told kassandra to leave as lo did not want her there. kassandra left immediately. sarabia saw defendant around 5:30 p.m., when defendant helped sarabia carry laundry. sarabia did not notice anything unusual about their conversation. lo, velasco and their children went bowling that evening at about 9:00 p.m. rosendo garcia (garcia), a car mechanic and friend of lo and velasco, was permitted to work on cars in their driveway. garcia was there, working on a car from about 7:00 5 p.m. around 11:00 p.m., defendant and kassandra arrived. kassandra was crying, her eyes watery, and her face red. defendant appeared to be high, and talked like a robot, but did lo had told garcia that no one was allowed to be at their property when they were not home, so garcia told defendant and kassandra to leave when they arrived. defendant replied that they would go after they used the restroom. defendant and kassandra then went into the garage, and when they did not come out, garcia went in and again told them to leave. sarabia testified that as he was going to sleep he heard defendant and kassandra arguing, but could not tell what was said other than hearing defendant sayto which her tone of voice suggested a denial, as though she was saying that something was not true, and she was crying. a few minutes before midnight, defendant went out and made small talk with garcia. he suggested that garcia personally tell kassandra to leave. defendant appeared to garcia to be and giving partial, zombie-like responses to questions. garcia went into the lit garage and noticed that the only extension cord that was plugged in was the cord that powered a work light. defendant and kassandra remained in the garage, and garcia went back to work. music was playing on a radio and garcia was using a battery powered impact drill. between the music and the drill, garcia heard no other sounds in the area. at some point garcia work light went out for maybe a minute. sometime around midnight garcia spoke by telephone to velasco at the bowling alley, and said defendant and kassandra were there, 6 would not leave, and were loudly arguing. velasco told garcia that he would return home. around 12:30 a.m., defendant came out of the garage alone. garcia noticed that he was buttoning his shirt, was sweaty, and appeared to be a somewhat jumpy. lo and velasco returned from the bowling alley about 12:40 a.m. they put the children to bed and then returned outside, where lo saw movement behind a tarp which hung over the garage door. with garcia and velasco behind her, lo tried to open the garage door, but it was locked, which was unusual. the inside light was not on. g on the door and her loud voice angrily telling defendant to open the door. sarabia then opened his door slightly and noticed that the light was off outside his room, which was unusual. he could not see anything in the dark, so he yelled out to defendant to open the door, and then went back to bed. lo continued to pound on the door, asking who was inside. defendant repliedwas not supposed to be there, lo asked him to open the door. defendant replied that he was changing and then leaving. even more upset, lo yelled to him to open the door. after awhile when he eventually moved back from the door, lo pushed it open. lo thought defendant looked sweaty, but he appeared to be unusually calm. surveillance video of this exchange was shown to the jury. using a flashlight lo and velasco saw kassandra on the floor, wrapped in a blanket. her eyes were wide open, and blood was everywhere. 7 nearby. confused, velasco called for sarabia to turn on the light. they then clearly saw kassandra on the floor. lo ran from the garage into the house and called 911. as she was leaving the garage, she heard velasco ask what had happened, and defendant reply garcia thought he heard defendant say something to the effect that he would clean it up, and to help him get her up. defendant then ran back and forth from the garage and then defendant asked for the keys to the van, which velasco refused. when defendant came out of the garage, garcia noticed that his feet were bare and wet. defendant asked garcia for keys to one of the cars he kept there, which garcia refused. defendant then ran away. surveillance video showed defendant running away a few minutes before 1:00 a.m. john mora, who lived around the corner from lo and velasco, had known defendant for more than 10 years. at about 1:00 a.m., mora opened pounding. mora told him to leave, concerned that he would disturb family. at first, ds car key, but gave it up when mora threatened to harm defendant. he then asked for a ride, and mora agreed. before he got out of the car, defendant told n a blanket, with head exposed, back down on two rugs. tools were spread out in the garage, including a power saw with blood on the blade and a 16-inch- the power saw was unplugged. blood, hair and brain matter appeared on 8 the metal head of the hammer. there was blood on the floor, a mirror, and two desks in front of the mirror. the bathroom shower was wet. deputy medical examiner kevin young testified that during the autopsy of he observed large gaping lacerations with skull fractures on the left side of her head and at the base of her skull. there were smaller lacerations at the back of her head and on her right eyebrow, as well as an abrasion on her cheek. the larger impact fractured the skull into many pieces, and although the pieces could have caused the smaller lacerations, dr. young thought it was more likely that they were separate impacts, as the lacerations were located on either side of the head. in his opinion it was most likely that two blows were the larger blow which caused the severe fracture also shredded and pulverized the left side of the brain. the head injuries were consistent with force used by a blunt weapon such as a hammer. he found no wounds on the point of near decapitation. her spine, spinal cord, trachea, the right and left carotid arteries, and the right jugular vein were severed. the injury was consistent with her neck having been cut by an electric saw with about an inch and a half of usable blade past the guard. as it was a clean cut, the saw must have been activated. dr. young did not think it possible to saw through the spine manually by pushing and pulling a small blade across the neck. dr. young concluded that the cause of death was multiple head and neck trauma with near complete decapitation. he was 9 unable to form an opinion as to whether the head trauma preceded the neck trauma. defense evidence defendant testified that he met and began dating kassandra in june 2014, and sometime after that they lived together. unbeknownst to lo, for a few months they lived in a . defendant described his relationship with kassandra as very loving. defendant admitted having been convicted of the following felonies: in 2006, of robbery, in 2012, of commercial burglary, and in 2015, of car theft. in 2009, defendant was convicted of possession of methamphetamine, as well as misdemeanor battery on a spouse or cohabitant. defendant began using marijuana at the age of 13 and methamphetamine at the age of 14. he was addicted to methamphetamine, marijuana, and alcohol and used them daily. as time went on he used more and was never able to quit. he had experience with withdrawal, but not by choice. he described feeling good when high, which erased his problems and took away his pain. defendant reduced his use only when he was incarcerated. by november 20, he was using two grams of methamphetamine per day to get high. when he was not working, he stole to get money to pay for his drugs. defendant used methamphetamine daily during the four days preceding november 20. on november 16, 17 and 18, he used methamphetamine and alcohol all day, including the two days company. on november 19, defendant used both methamphetamine and pcp in the afternoon. he and kassandra both used drugs while they were visiting with a friend. they spent that night at 10 the sydney drive garage. defendant denied having slept that night, and claimed to have seen sarabia leave for work. the next morning at about 6:00 or 7:00 a.m., defendant drank a capful of liquid ecstasy, given to him by smith. he had never used it before, and did not know what it was. about a week before he killed kassandra, defendant heard a rumor that she might be sleeping around. his father told him that he had seen her getting out of a car with two men while wearing skimpy clothes. when defendant questioned her about it, she denied it. defendant admitted during the days leading up to november 20, he spoke to kassandra the fuck out of hereremember the exact words. on november 20, defendant again asked kassandra if she was being unfaithful to him. kassandra again denied it, and they argued and she cried. defendant testified that his last use of methamphetamine was about 7:00 p.m., and the argument began between 7:00 and 8:00 p.m. three hours had elapsed between the time he had taken the drug and his arrival at the sydney drive duplex. defendant claimed that he had not slept in five or six days. he was tired, frustrated, and was experiencing the unusual feeling that next move before it was made. he thought the ecstasy had caused a different kind of high. defendant could not remember going in and out of the garage as shown in the surveillance video. defendant remembered that when he arrived, sarabia and smith were in the garage and he asked them for a pipe to smoke methamphetamine. he remembered that garcia told him and kassandra to leave, and that he did not leave because he wanted to get high and was looking for a pipe. defendant and kassandra 11 continued their argument after smith and sarabia went to their room and closed the door. defendant kept pressing kassandra kassandra continued with denials, and defendant kept pressing. feeling frustrated, tired, burnt out, he finally . . kassandra then admitted she had been sleeping around for money to get high, but would not say with whom. defendant testified that he felt hurt, sad, angry, betrayed and confused so he then sniffed all his remaining methamphetamine. he had leaned his head back, when kassandra approached him. he thought she was going to slap him, so he put his left hand in front of his head, and then he felt a hard impact on the side of his head. he did not see what she used to hit him. he was not knocked out, but developed a bump. he then saw the sledgehammer on the floor, became enraged, so he grabbed the hammer and swung it at kassandra. defendant was unable to say whether the hammer in evidence was the same hammer he used. on cross-examination, defendant testified that kassandra was about five feet away when he saw her hand coming toward him as though she was going to slap him. he did not see anything in her hand and could not tell whether her hand was open when he saw her swinging it. he also remembered that whatever she had hit him with hit his leg and then the chair before hitting the floor. defendant explained that he grabbed it from the floor, while overwhelmed by feelings of rage, intense emotions, and confusion. defendant said he was not thinking about anything when he picked up the hammer and swung it at kassandra. he could 12 not remember how many times he swung the hammer, whether he chased kassandra, whether he made contact, tapped her with it, or swung hard, or whether she fell to the ground. nor could he remember picking up the saw, turning it on, applying it to , or seeing the blanket. defendant did not remember locking the door to the garage, refusing to admit lo, washing himself in the shower, or trying to take the keys from mora. he did not remember changing his clothes or shoes, and claimed that when he left for mexico the next day he was wearing the same clothes he wore when he attacked kassandra. the first thing defendant remembered after swinging the hammer was seeing the lights . when he saw the lights, he snapped out of his trance or rage and then saw kassandra lying on the floor. since it was dark, he could not see what was wrong with her. he did not recall seeing kassandra wrapped in a blanket though he knew something was wrong with her. he did not check her and could not remember why he did not. defendant did not remember speaking with velasco or lo, or their attempts to get into the garage. defendant remembered nothing from the time he saw the van lights until he was in car. he then knew that something had gone horribly wrong, but he did not know what. defendant explained that he ran because he was scared and paranoid. he did not discover what had happened until the next day when he asked his friend larry to do a google search, and then he could not believe it. defendant did not seek medical attention for his head, and did not try to contact the police. larry gave him money and a ride to tijuana, where defendant bought a ticket to nayarit. there he contacted his uncle, spent the night at his 13 , and then his uncle took him to a rehabilitation facility where he stayed for two weeks. although defendant knew the police were looking for him, he did not notify them while there. mexican authorities found him at the facility and he was returned to los angeles. psychiatrist william wirshing testified as an expert on the effects of methamphetamine use. dr. wirshing testified that about 60 percent of his recovery center patients have comorbid methamphetamine use, addiction, or dependence. he added that acute and chronic methamphetamine use causes chemical changes in the brain that can alter cognitive ability, resulting in significant changes in perception, attention, focus, memory, and judgment. chronic use is associated with serious ease and early dementia. chronic use decreases the functioning of the prefrontal cortex, which is responsible for impulse control and regulation, rage control, focus, and working memory. users experience feelings of pleasure and joy but over time, addicts develop a tolerance and need escalating dosages in order to get the same feelings. with chronic use, methamphetamine can cause hallucinations, which are usually visual, but can be followed by tactile sensations and auditory hallucinations. methamphetamine use interferes with sleep and promotes an acute wakeful state. as a consequence of sleep deprivation over several days, the user starts to hallucinate, experience dreams while awake, and become delirious, going in and out of attention. a substantial impairment of cognition or development of psychosis takes from five to ten years of chronic use. a chronic methamphetamine user would have demonstrably impaired memory compared to nonusers, and the user would not remember 14 all the days he had ingested the drug. however, memory would not be severely impaired. a person who exhibits extreme impairment due to methamphetamine use would have issues with impulse control and judgment, and it is conceivable that in an extreme case his actions would not have a rational order to it. feeling able to predict what is about to happen is a psychotic experience that can occur with methamphetamine use. the drug disrupts memory storage, and the user becomes confused about what happened first. dr. wirshing explained that pcp, or phencyclidine, is also addictive. it acts as a disassociative and esthetic agent. it disassociates the user from his physical and emotional experience, separates the user from emotional distress and the physical experience, creating what seems like disembodied cognition. it can have an hallucinogenic effect, even at doses lower than that which causes disassociation. mdma, or methylenedioxymethamphetamine,2 he explained, causes a disproportionate stimulation of serotonin and releases oxytocin, the hormone involved in maternal bonding. it causes the user to feel close to people and removes natural barriers to social discourse. there are various tests to determine brain damage from chronic methamphetamine use, such as a functional mri to look at such things as blood flow and oxygen uptake, a pet scan which can detect tiny strokes that occur from the increased blood pressure associated with methamphetamine use. dr. wirshing evaluated defendant in october 2017 for up to two hours, but did not record the interview or keep his notes. prior to the interview, 2 mdma is also known as ecstasy. (see http://unabridged.merriam-webster.com/unabridged/mdma.) 15 but he was not aware of any physical tests or brain scans done on defendant. in response to a hypothetical question of a person who was chronically addicted to methamphetamine, had been sleep deprived for five or six nights, had taken an unknown quantity of pcp at least once, and d liquid mdma, dr. wirshing opined that such a person would predictably have grossly impaired executive decision-making. he explained that sleep deprivation targets the entire brain. dr. wirshing agreed with the prosecutor that goal-directed behavior could be one way to assess the extent of impairment. he acknowledged that grabbing a hammer, hitting a person on the head with it, sawing her neck, wrapping the body in a blanket, and then fleeing all sounded like goal-directed behaviors. in response to court questioning, dr. wirshing testified that it was uncommon to take pcp, ecstasy, and methamphetamine at the same time. although it was uncommon, he had come across the combination before. he testified that the most common drug taken with methamphetamine was marijuana. rebuttal mora testified on rebuttal that in conversations with defendant approximately four days or up to a week before the murder, defendant told him something to the effect that kassandra had sleeping around. defendant indicated that he knew it was true by telling mora specifics about those who kassandra had been with. sometime 16 after that conversation, defendant came to house looking for kassandra. mora testified that when defendant came to the house on november 21 to ask for a ride, he did not appear to have any injuries, and he did not complain that his head hurt. discussion i. malice instructions defendant contends that the trial court incorrectly instructed the jury that malice is not an element of voluntary manslaughter. dinstructions such as the following: caljic no. 8.11, defining express malice (the intent to unlawfully kill a human being) and implied malice (doing an act known to be dangerous to human life with a conscious disregard for human life); caljic no. 8.37 he unlawful killing of a human malice aforethought if the killing occurred upon a sudden quarrel or heat of passion or in the actual but unreasonable belief in the necessity to defend oneself against imminent peril to life or great manslaughter is that murder requires malice while from the entire charge of the court . . . . (people v. castillo (1997) 16 cal.4th 1009, 1016.) instructions should be interpreted, if possible, so as to support the judgment rather than defeat it . . . . [citations.] (people v. laskiewicz (1986) 176 cal.appresumed to be intelligent and capable of understanding and people v. gonzales 17 (2011) 51 cal.4th 894, 940.) isolation booths parsing instructions for subtle shades of meaning in the same way that lawyers might. differences among them in interpretation of instructions may be thrashed out in the deliberative process, with commonsense understanding of the instructions in the light of all that has taken place at the trial boyde v. california (1990) 494 u.s. 370, 380-381.) murder is the unlawful killing of a human being . . . with malice aforethought. ( 187, subd. (a).) manslaughter is the unlawful killing of a human being without malice [citation.] manslaughter is a lesser included offense of murder, and a defendant who commits an intentional and unlawful killing but who lacks malice is guilty of voluntary manslaughter. heat of passion is one of the mental states that precludes the formation of malice and reduces an unlawful killing from murder to people v. nelson (2016) 1 cal.5th 513, 538, citing  192, subd. (a); people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154.) the instructions given here amply explained these concepts.3 3 the trial court gave the jury instructions, including caljic nos. 5.17 (imperfect self-defense), 8.10 (murder defined), 8.11 (malice aforethought defined), 8.20 (deliberate and premeditated murder), 8.30 (unpremeditated second degree murder), 8.31 (second degree murder by unlawful act dangerous to life), 8.37 (manslaughter defined), 8.40 (voluntary manslaughter defined), 8.42 (sudden quarrel or heat of passion, provocation explained), 8.50 (distinction between murder and manslaughter), 8.55 (cause of death defined in murder and in manslaughter cases), 8.70 (the two degrees of murder), 8.71 (reasonable doubt as to degree), and 8.75 (partial verdict in 18 defendant argues that the instructions erroneously suggested that no killing with malice could be manslaughter and that all killings with malice must be murder. defendant cites no authority suggesting that caljic pattern instructions regarding murder and manslaughter or their explanations of malice are incorrect. rather, defendant bases his argument on his reading of people v. bryant (2013) 56 cal.4th 959 (bryant), which he construes as holding that malice is an element of voluntary manslaughter. with careful paraphrasing and partial quotes, defendant contends that bryant held at page 969 that but it stil the california supreme the court did offense constituted voluntary manslaughter instead of murder because a key element of malice aforethought was lacking, not because malice aforethought was actually present but was [such] cases . . . id. at p. 969, italics added.) defendant apparently construes bryant as holding that malice is simply a synonym for intent to kill. however, intent to unlawfully kill [which generally] constitutes malice. (people v. rios (2000) 23 cal.4th 450, 460, italics added.) the bryant court was addressing a felony-murder issue homicide cases). the defendant did not object to any of these instructions. 19 ,4 and explained that tary manslaughter -- a killing upon a sudden quarrel or heat of passion ( 192, subd. (a)), a killing in unreasonable self-defense [citation] . . . are united by the principle that when a defendant acts with an intent to kill or a conscious disregard for life (i.e., the mental state ordinarily sufficient to constitute malice aforethought), other circumstances may preclude the jury from finding that the defendant acted with malice aforethought. but in all of these circumstances, a defendant convicted of voluntary manslaughter has acted either with an intent to kill or with conscious disregard for life.bryant, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 969-970, italics added.) instructions, or the giving of the instructions, he acknowledges that the instructions correctly conveyed to the jury that even if it found that defendant acted with express or implied malice, such malice could be negated, disregarded, or excused by adequate provocation or imperfect self-defense. defendant explains that his contention is that the instructions were incorrect as applied to this case, because when read together, they were confusing, ambiguous, and incomprehensible. defendant suggests that confusion would have been avoided if the instructions had 4 the bryant in the commission of an inherently dangerous assaultive felony is not voluntary manslaughter, the trial court could not have erred bryant, 56 cal.4th at p. 970.) 20 instructed regarding voluntary manslaughter only with calcrim nos. 570 and 571, regarding heat of passion and imperfect self-defense, without mentioning malice. defendant does not claim that he requested calcrim instructions, that he objected to the caljic instructions, or that he pointed out any supposed flaws in the caljic instructions. an accurate statement of law without a request from counsel [citation], and failure to request clarification of an otherwise correct instruction forfeits the claim of error for purposes of people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 638.) when instructions are claimed to be confusing, conflicting, or ambiguous, is a reasonable likelihood that the jury misunderstood and people v. smithey (1999) 20 cal.4th 936, 963-964, citing estelle v. mcguire (1991) 502 u.s. 62, 72 & fn. 4.) and prejudice, defendant argues that there was significant evidence that he acted under the influence of a sudden quarrel, heat of passion, or imperfect self-defense. he points to his testimony that kassandra ultimately admitted her infidelity, which caused him to feel hurt, angry, sad, confused and betrayed. methamphetamine, when she said, then hit him on the head with the hammer. without further explanation for read back of that the case was close. 21 with regard to imperfect self-defense, the jury was person in the actual but unreasonable belief in the necessity to defend against imminent peril to life or great bodily injury kills unlawfully but does not italics added.) suggests that the killing may have been provoked or in honest response to perceived danger, it is the obligation to proffer some showing on these issues sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt of his guilt of murderpeople v. rios, supra, 23 cal.4th at pp. 461-462.) defendant failed to do so. defendant testified that after he refused to share his drugs, she then approached him and he felt a hard impact on his head, felt something touch his leg, looked down, and saw the hammer on the floor. he became enraged and picked up the hammer and swung it at her. defendant did not know if kassandra had used the hammer, did not remember hitting her or any of his actions with the power saw. defendant did not testify that he believed he had to attack kassandra in order to defend himself, or that he believed that his life was in imminent peril. indeed no other evidence suggested that he actually harbored such a belief. the only evidence he presented on the question was that he did not think, but instead acted on his rage. defendant has thus failed to demonstrate any likelihood that the jury misunderstood or misapplied its instructions with regard to imperfect self-defense. with regard to sudden quarrel or heat of passion, the trial court thoroughly instructed the jury that the passion must have resulted from provocation by the decedent or was reasonably believed by the defendant to have been engaged in by the 22 decedent, and that the provocation must have been of the passion, and the assailant must act under the influence of that first, there was no evidence of a sudden quarrel here, as defendant admitted that the quarrel had started before 8:00 p.m. that evening and continued with defendant pressing kassandra to confess her infidelity by cursing at her until she finally confessed. from his room in the garage, sarabia heard them arguing around 11:00 p.m.of voice indicating denial, that something was not true, while she was crying. urveillance cameras confirm that kassandra was alive about 30 minutes before lo and velasco returned home from the bowling alley about 12:40 a.m. second, there is no other evidence suggesting jury confusion or misunderstanding regarding sudden quarrel or heat of passion. the trial court instructed with caljic nos. 8.42 and 8.43 regarding legally sufficient provocation to cause defendant to act in the heat of passion or due to a sudden quarrel, and defendant acknowledges that these instructions were a correct statement of the law. the instruction thus correctly informed the jury that the actual provocation must have been such to cause an and without deliberation and reflection and from passion rather (see people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1252-1253.) generally more than a single incident of infidelity is required to establish legally sufficient provocation. (see, e.g., 23 people v. berry (1976) 18 cal.3d 509, 514-516; people v. borchers (1958) 50 cal.2d 321, 328-329; people v. le (2007) 158 cal.app.4th 516, 528-529.) defendant had known about up to a week before the killing. n enraged him, but that rather he felt hurt, sad, angry, betrayed, and confused. these feelings prompted him only to take a dose of methamphetamine and let it drip down his throat while defiantly defendant testified that it was after he ad, felt a blow to his head, felt something on his leg he assumed was caused by the sledgehammer because he saw the hammer on the floor, that he then exploded in intense rage. quate provocation is an objective one . . . . the provocation must be such that an average, sober person would be so inflamed that he or she would lose reason and judgment. adequate provocation and heat of passion must be affirmatively demonstrated. [cipeople v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 60, italics added.) the trial court read caljic nos. 4.21, 4.22, 4.71, instructing the jury that although voluntary intoxication may be considered in determining whether defendant harbored an intent to kill, it would not negate implied malice. provocation is an objective one based on a reasonable person standard, the fact the defendant is intoxicated or suffers from a mental abnormality or has particular susceptibilities to events is irrelevant in determining whether the claimed provocation was people v. oropeza (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 73, 83, citing people v. steele, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 1253.) defendant had used methamphetamine, marijuana, and alcohol 24 during the days leading up to the killing. a day earlier he used methamphetamine and pcp, and on the day of the killing he used methamphetamine and . also, defendant used methamphetamine immediately before he became enraged that kassandra had hit him with something he assumed was a hammer. defense expert, dr. wirshing testified that chronic use of methamphetamine can lead to hallucinations, impulse control and psychotic thoughts of knowing what is about to happen. in sum, the evidence presented and the instructions regarding actual passion and legally sufficient provocation gave the jury clear guidance to determine whether defendant acted with malice or whether circumstances precluded a finding of malice. the jury had before it ample evidence and adequate instructions to conclude that an average, sober person would not lose reason and judgment under the circumstances faced by defendant. we conclude that there is no reasonable probability that the jury was confused by the manslaughter, murder, and malice instructions. ii. causation and premeditation defendant contends that the jury instructions did not adequately inform the jury that to convict him of first degree premeditation and deliberation preceded the specific act that actually caused death. he argues that the instructions given allowed the jury to base a conviction of first degree murder on premeditation and deliberation of the lethak, even if she was already dead at the time due to the hammer blows, and even if it determined that the fatal hammer blows were not premeditated. defendant cites no authority in support of this contention. 25 deputy medical examiner young, testified that each of two head injuries was consistent with a hammer blow on each side of the head, one larger and fatal, and that her neck injuries were consistent with use of a power saw. dr. young could not say whether the fatal blow to the head would have immediately caused death, but he said that it would have been rapid. he determined that the he testified that he was unable to determine the time or the order of each of the injuries inflicted. in addition to instructions on first degree murder and second degree murder, the jury was instructed with regard to premeditation and deliberation with caljic no. 8.20, as follows: all murder which is perpetrated by any kind of willful, deliberate, and premeditated killing with express malice aforethought is murder of the first degree. the word willful, as used in this instruction, means intentional. the word , which relates to how a person thinks, means formed or arrived at or determined upon as a result of careful thought and weighing of considerations for and against the proposed course of action. the word premeditated relates to when a person thinks and means considered beforehand. one premeditates by deliberating before taking action. if you find that the killing was preceded and accompanied by a clear, deliberate intent on the part of the defendant to kill, which was as a result of 26 deliberation and premeditation so that it must have been formed on pre-existing reflection and not under a certain heat of passion or other condition, precluding the idea of deliberation, it is murder of the first degree. the law does not undertake to measure in units of time the length of the period during which the thought must be pondered before it can ripen into an intent to kill which is truly deliberate and premeditated. the time will vary with different individuals and under varying circumstances. the true test is not in the duration of time, but rather the extent of the reflection. a cold, calculated judgment and decision may be arrived at in a short period of time. but a mere unconsidered and rash impulse, even though it includes an intent to kill, is not deliberation and premeditation as will fix an unlawful killing as murder of the first degree. to constitute a deliberate and premeditated killing, the slayer must weigh and consider the question of killing, and the reasons for and against such a choice, and having in mind the consequences, he decides to and does kill. soon after deliberations began the jury sent out a note with f the initial act is not determined to be premeditated, and the second act is determined premeditated, can both acts be viewed as a who the jurors were brought into court and were asked to clarify what was meant by the initial act and the second act. after further consideration the jury act to involve the hammer and the sec 27 the trial court expressed its intention to read an instruction on causation, have the jury review all murder instructions beginning with caljic no. 8.10, and to allow further argument by counsel if the jurors wanted further argument. the jurors wanted not only additional argument, but following read back of he trial court read calcrim no. 240 as follows: natural, and probable consequence of the act, and the death would not have happened without the act. a natural and probable consequence is one that a reasonable person would know is likely to happen if nothing unusual intervenes. in deciding whether a consequence is natural and probable, consider all the circumstances established by the evidence. there may be more than one cause of death. an act causes death only if it is a substantial factor in causing the death. a substantial factor is more than a trivial or remote factor; however, it does not have to be the only factor that causes the death. counsel was then allowed further argument. trial counsel argued that circumstantial evidence showed that kassandra died from the hammer blows before the saw was used. among other evidence he pointed out that sarabia heard no screams, and dr. young testified that death from the hammer blows would have been rapid. defense counsel referred the jury to its instruction regarding circumstantial evidence, and argued that confronted with two opposing reasonable inferences drawn from circumstantial evidence, it must choose the inference raising a reasonable doubt, and thus must choose in this case the inference that kassandra was dead before the saw was used. 28 the prosecutor argued that the evidence did not show the hammer blows to have been inflicted in a heat of passion, that the hammer blows, including getting the saw and using it, was evidence of his premeditation and deliberation before picking up the hammer. the jury had sufficient information to reject a finding of premeditation and deliberation if it inferred that the hammer blows were not premeditated and that the hammer killed kassandra before the saw was used. caljic no. 8.20 instructed the jury that beforehand, before taking action, and that for first degree murder, it must find that the premeditation and deliberation preceded and accompanied the killing. the evidence, argument and instructions could also allow the jury to reasonably infer that both deadly acts were dr. young testified that such injuries would be rapidly fatal, but not necessarily immediately so. defendant claimed not to remember getting or using the saw, so it is unknown when he plugged it in, how long it took him to pick it up, and how soon after the hammer blows he started cutting with it. the instructions, evidence and argument could also allow the jury a third option. in determining premeditation and deliberation, the jury could properly have considered evidence of planning, a preexisting motive, the manner of killing, and any other circumstantial evidence from which premeditation and deliberation may reasonably be inferred. (people v. pride (1992) 3 cal.4th 195, 247.) the jury was not limited to considering only 29 consider before, during, and after the killing. (see people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1129 (perez).) thus, where, as in this case, the evidence does not establish that defendant knew whether the victim was dead after a first attack, the circumstances surrounding a second attack may be probative attack. (id. at pp. 1127-1128.) we agree with respondent that the trial court met its (people v. flannel (1979) 25 cal.3d 668, 672), and that if defendant wished to have the court instruct in different or particular words, he was required to request a pinpoint instruction. (see people v. saille (1991) 54 cal.3d 1103, 1117.) iii. response to under a different heading, defendant again takes issue determined to be premeditated, and the second act is determined premeditated, can both acts be viewed as a whole (italics added.) he argues that the with something to the effect of the following: premeditated and deliberated but the use of the saw was, you may not view those two acts as one whole. if you find that only the use of the saw was premeditated and deliberated, then you must determine if the use of the saw was a cause of death. if you conclude that only the use of the saw was premeditated and deliberated and have a reasonable 30 doubt about whether the use of the saw was a cause of death, then you must find the defendant not guilty we observe that if defendant wished to have the court instruct in different or particular words, he was required to request a pinpoint instruction in the trial court. (see people v. saille, supra, 54 cal.3d at p. 1117.) we have already determined that the trial court adequately . we found that caljic no. 8.20 sufficiently instructed the jury that thinking and considered beforehand, before taking action, and that for first degree murder, it must find that the premeditation and deliberation preceded and accompanied the killing. we note that without death, there is no killing. as defense counsel was permitted to argue this point to the jury, we do not agree that any further instruction was required. we pointed out that the jury was permitted to consider all the circumstances of both e of mind when he killed kassandra. (see perez, supra, 2 cal.4th at pp. 1127-1129.) defendant contends that counsel rendered ineffective assistance by not requesting a pinpoint instruction. to prevail on this claimel made guaranteed the defendant by the sixth amendment. second, the defendant must show that the deficient performance prejudiced (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687.) unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have id. at p. 694.) 31 defendant has failed to demonstrate counsel error. proposed surely have been rejected, as it would have caused more, not less confusion, to categorically tell the jury that it could not consider both acts as a whole. the jury was permitted to consider all of to determine whether the defendant committed premeditated murder. (see perez, supra, 2 cal.4th at pp. 1127-1128.) thus, the jury was permitted to consider the circumstances of both acts as a whole. as respondent observes, trial counsel is not obligated to interpose meritless objections. (people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 186, fn. 36.) nor does counsel perform deficiently for failing to make meritless requests. (people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 432, 463.) defendant has also failed to demonstrate prejudice. he reasons prosecutor urged it to do -- consider the acts as one whole and focus on the planning and thought that apparently were required to operate the saw. as we discussed above, the response defendant proposes here would have been confusing and properly rejected. as we have determined that the jury was entitled to consider all of the circumstances as a whole in order to infer when he performed the fatal act, the failed to demonstrate that he was prejudiced by proper argument. iv. court questions defendant contends that the trial court improperly engaged dr. wirshing in the following colloquy: the court: i have one question. how common is it for someone, within a 24-hour period, to take pcp, ecstasy, and methamphetamine at the same time? 32 especially if they, fused pcp and ecstasy in the past. the witness]: yeah, the combination is a little unusual. t? the witness]: as i say, pcp is so different in terms -- not unusual to -- unusual to combine them. if you look at our urine positives, the most common one to be co-occurring with pcp is actually marijuana. i guess i asked is it something you come across? the witness]: oh, certainly. oh, certainly. the court: the three in a 24-hour period? the witness]: oh, i thought you asked is it common. but have i seen that. oh, definitely. the court: those three drugs together? the witness]: yes. mm-hmm. you see that on belief that defendant did not tell the truth about his drug use, and that the court effectively allied itself with the prosecution. questions. the failure to object forfeits a claim of judicial 33 misconduct unless defendant demonstrates that an objection would be futile or that a timely admonition would not have cured any potential prejudice. (people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1220.) defendant contends on appeal that no admonition would have avoided prejudice because judges have great influence with juries. defendanown reasoning is self-negating. if judges have great influence with juries, then the jury was later reading of caljic no. 17.30 to the jury, as follows: i have not intended by anything i have said or done, or by any questions i may have asked, or by any ruling i may have made, to intimate or suggest what you should find to be the facts, or that i believe or disbelieve any witness. if anything i have done or said has seemed to so indicate, you will disregard it and form your own conclusion. we presume that the jurors understood and followed the and note that defendant has pointed to no evidence that they did otherwise. (people v. gonzales, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 940.) defendant also contends that any objection would have likely to consider his own question and comments improper. we agree that an objection may have been futile, but not due to judicial egotism, but rather because such an objection would have been without merit. the trial judge the power, discretion and affirmative duty . . . [to] participate in the examination of witnesses whenever he believes that he may fairly aid in eliciting the truth, in preventing misunderstanding, in clarifying the testimony or covering omissions, in allowing a witness his right of explanation, and in 34 [citations.] [] the constrainof witnesses in the presence of a jury are akin to the limitations . . . temperate, nonargumentative, and scrupulously fair. the trial court may not . . . withdraw material evidence from the jurys consideration, distort the record, expressly or impliedly direct a verdict, or otherwise usurp the jurys ultimate factfinding power.(people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 350.) was proper under such guidelines. characterization of the questions, the court did not express any indeed, the court brought claim that he had ingested not only methamphetamine that day, and not only pcp, but also liquid ecstasy. the jury could easily have found such testimony difficult to believe and falsely made solely to bolster claim of having been in a kind of trance. but testified that although the drug combination was uncommon, he had previously encountered it. we also agree with respondent that there is no reasonable prejudice. defendant argues that his drug use was the core of the defense, and as we have observed, the uestions brought out testimony that might have lent credibility to what the jury might otherwise have rejected as an exaggerated or false claim. as we have also noted, the court read caljic no. 17.30 to the jury, and we presume that the jury followed it. 35 finally, compelling evidence supported a finding of premeditation and deliberation. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, (people v. sanchez (2001) 26 cal.4th 834, 849.) in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27, our supreme court suggested three categories of evidence, planning activity, preexisting motive, and manner of killing, from which premeditation and deliberation may be inferred. (see also people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1069.) there is no requirement that all three factors be established or that any factor must be shown by direct evidence. (perez, supra, 2 cal.4th at pp. 1124-1125.) the after the killing may provide circumstantial evidence of premeditation. (id. at p. 1129.) mistreatment of kassandra prior to the murder. defendant had a history of speaking rudely to kassandra, as he had been previously heard by others cursing at her and ordering her about. evidence showed that his anger with kassandra for her infidelity had been building the week before the murder. in addition, defendant admitted calling kassandra stupid and cursing at her, n the day and evening of the murder strongly suggested that defendant had become even more angry duand her refusals to comply with his demands for a confession. before going to the sydney drive garage, he pressured her, argued with her, made her cry, and finally left, telling her not to come with him. he pushed her 36 away when she tried to hug him. once in the garage, he continued his pressure, cursed at her and again made her cry. d, as well as the manner of killing, strongly support the conclusion that defendant premeditated kassandra. the evidence showed that sometime between midnight and 12:40 a.m., defendant killed kassandra by striking her twice in the head with a sledgehammer and nearly decapitating her with an electric saw. he then locked the door to the garage, wrapped n a blanket, placed her on a rug, took a shower, changed his clothes, and turned out the lights in the garage. this evidence, combined with motive, strongly supports an inference that defendant harbored a premeditated intent to kill kassandra. there was also overwhelming evidence that defendant was conscious of his guilt and aware of his actions. the order that defendant wrapped the body, took a shower, changed clothes, locked the door, and turned out the light is also unknown. however, whatever the order, such actions, along with his delay in unlocking the door and his refusal to open it, his asking velasco to stop lo from calling the police, his flight from the scene, and his flight to mexico, provided compelling evidence that they were carried out consciously and methodically, effectively discrediting the suggestion that he was so intoxicated or so brain damaged, that he took all these actions without thinking or remembering them. in addition, as respondent points out, defendthat the drugs he ingested impaired his consciousness, lacked credibility given clear memory of what drugs he took, the days on which he took them, and the times that he took them 37 prior to the murder. it was the opinion of defendan furthermore, dr. wirshing acknowledged that grabbing a hammer, hitting a person on the head with it, sawing her neck, wrapping the body in a blanket, and then fleeing all sounded like goal-directed behaviors. we conclude that as overwhelming evidence supported a finding of premeditation and deliberation, there is no reasonable probability that the verdict would have been different without the defendant contends that the trial court abused its s to due process and to present a defense by excluding evidence that methamphetamine had been found the trial court excluded the evidence as irrelevant and on the basis of evidence code section 352. means evidence, including evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence [citations] but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 444 (thornton).) its discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will . . . create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing 38 people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 138.) the trial court enjoys broad discretion in making its assessment, and its discretion will not be disturbed unless defendant demonstrates that arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest a miscarriage of justice. [c (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1124-1125; evid. code,  352, 354; cal. const., art. vi,  13.) as our supreme court has said multiple times, the trial drug use or intoxication. (people v. loker (2008) 44 cal.4th 691, 735-736.) the court is not required to admit evidence of the (id. at p. 736, citing people v. kelly (1992) 1 cal.4th 495, 523; people v. hillhouse (2002) 27 cal.4th 469, 496.) while the exclusion of relevant evidence vital to the defense has [no] constitutional right to present all relevant evidence in his favor, no matter how limited in probative value such evidence will be so as to preclude the trial court from using evidence code section 352. people v. babbitt (1988) 45 cal.3d 660, 684.) when relevant evidence has been excluded under such ordinary rules of evidence, defendant bears a heavy burden to demonstrate a violation of his right to due process under the constitution. (montana v. egelhoff (1996) 518 u.s. 37, 42-43.) as defendant did not raise constitutional issues below, he must first meet his burden to establish state law error. (thornton, supra, 41 cal.4th at pp. 443-444.) in the trial court, the issue was raised by the prosecutor, just after the defense rested. she explained that she had told 39 defense counsel that she would stipulate that methamphetamine the court found it to be relevant. the trial court found that the evidence was not relevant, and that under evidence code section 352, the court found that it would only serve to make the victim look bad, that there had already been testimony that she used drugs, and that there was no reason to admit toxicology or other evidence regarding the amount she used. defense counsel agreed that the amount of methamphetamine in kassandranot relevant, but argued that the fact of its presence lent he argued that it would t]he only relevance . . . is that what [defendant] testified to is not just something he conjured defendant sought to use the evidence to bolster his general credibility in the trial court. on appeal, defendant contends that the proffered evidence would have corroborated his testimony and enhanced his credibility because it would have shown that kassandra had ingested methamphetamine at some point shortly before her death. there was no such offer of proof below. the prosecutor merely said that the autopsy showed the presence of mention of evidence concerning the amount ingested or how long before her death it was ingested. citing evidence code section 210, defendant further contends that evidence confirming that kassandra had ingested methamphetamine shortly before her death was relevant claimed, that kassandra had used methamphetamine on the 40 evening she died, and (albeit less directly) suggested that when [defendant] said he and kassandra routinely used we have found no such testimony. defendant refers to page 1229 of antestified specifically that they had used drugs together the day before the killing and defendant exaggerates his testimony. on the cited page, defendant testified merely that on the evening of november 19, 2015, he and kassandra were at house and that kassandra was using drugs with him. defendant did not specify the drug she used. defendant also cites page 1238, [and] defendant testified that kassandra had used methamphetamine on the evening she died or that they routinely used methamphetamine together. defendant also conteninfluence of methamphetamine, it made far more sense that, in became enraged, impulsively picked up a hammer, and, having less control over her emotions, resorted to violence by hitting him defendant overstates dr. wi. dr. wirshing did not testify as to the significance of an unknown amount of methamphetamine in the heart blood, how long methamphetamine remains in the blood, or how long the effects of an unknown amount of methamphetamine might last. he 41 that can result in significant changes in perception, attention, focus, memory, and judgment. however, it is chronic use which is responsible for impulse and rage control. just as there was no offer to prove how much methamphetamine kassandra ingested or when or how long before her death it was ingested, there was no offer to prove that she was a chronic user. in essence, defendant argues that his general credibility of a hammer would be bolstered with evidence that kassandra took methamphetamine in an unknown quantity, at an unknown time, but with no evidence that she was a chronic methamphetamine user or had ever used it more than once. defendant argues this would testimony that kassandra used a drug, the name and quantity of arguments, based upon mischaracterizations of the evidence provide no basis to find ercise of discretion was arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd. moreover, under evidence code section 352, defendant must demonstrate not only that the ruling was erroneous, but also that the error resulted in a miscarriage of justice. (see people v. rodrigues, supra, 8 cal.4th at p. 1124; evid. code,  352, 354; cal. const., art. vi,  13.) he must meet his burden under the standard set forth in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson), by showing a reasonable probability of a different result absent the alleged error. (people v. paniagua (2012) 209 cal.app.4th 499, 524.) for the same reasons that defendant failed to provide a basis for this court to find that the patently absurd, he has failed to demonstrate a reasonable 42 probability of a different result if the jury had been told that the autopsy showed methamphetam defendant argues that the exclusion of the evidence was prejudicial because it methamphetamine the night she was killed, and was highly probative of a factual question critical to all defense theories: did kassandra hit [defendant] with a hammer the evidence did was using methamphetamine the night she was killed, because there was no such evidence to corroborate. that kassandra hit him with a hammer. defendant testified that he did not see what was in her hand, if anything, because it was dark. defendant then gave contradictory explanations that after he felt an impact on his head, he felt whatever she used hit his leg and then the floor. he looked down, and all he saw was the hammer. when the prosecutor showed him the hammer in evidence, he said he believed that it was the same hammer that was in evidence. however, earlier in his testimony, he was shown the hammer in evidence and did not know whether that was the hammer. in addition, he initially testified that he was not thinking anything when he picked up the hammer. there was no evidence that kassandra was a chronic user, and it is not reasonably probable that merely knowing that kassandra had an unknown quantity of methamphetamine in her heart blood would have made the jury testimony any more believable. 43 we conclude that as defendant has failed to show error or a miscarriage of justice under the watson standard, his constitutional claim fails as well. (see thornton, supra, 41 cal.4th at pp. 443-444.) regardless, we would conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that under all the circumstances we have discussed above, any constitutional error would have been harmless. vi. admissions to prior conviction allegations defendant contends that his sentence must be reversed because his admissions to prior conviction allegations were not made knowingly and voluntarily, because the trial court failed to advise him of the specific penal consequences of his admissions. when a criminal defendant admits a prior conviction allegation that subjects him to increased punishment, the trial court is required to ensure that the plea is knowing and voluntary. (people v. cross (2015) 61 cal.4th 164, 170.) the -- the privilege against compulsory self-incrimination, the right to trial by jury, and the right to confront ones accusers -- and solicit a personal waiver of each [boykin-tahl (ibid., citing boykin v. alabama (1969) 395 u.s. 238, 243-244, and in re tahl (1969) 1 cal.3d 122, 130-133.) in addition, under a judicially declared rule of criminal procedure (see in re yurko (1974) 10 cal.3d 857, 863-864), the trial court must advise the be imposed, the effect on parole eligibility, and the possibility of people v. cross, supra, at pp. 170-171.) affirmatively shows that [the admission] is voluntary and 44 (id. at p. 179, quoting people v. howard (1992) 1 cal.4th 1132, 1175.) on march 22, 2018, prior to the verdicts, defendant waived his right to a jury trial on his prior convictions and agreed to a have . . . this identical jury . . . determine whether or not you have some prior you talked to your lawyer about your rights defendant was convicted the next day, and the court scheduled the bench trial on the prior convictions and a sentencing hearing. it was not until two weeks after filing his sentencing memorandum and one week after the prosecution filed its sentencing memorandum, that defendant admitted the prior convictions. at the time of trial on the prior convictions, after advising defendant of his constitutional trial rights and other matters, the following colloquy ensued: court: did you discuss your constitutional rights, the admissions of these priors and any other questions you the court: and do you understand that by admitting these priors it is going to permit the court to give you additional time on this case? the court: is there anything else i have neglected 45 the prosecutor replied that she did not think so, and there was no reply by defense counsel. admissions. the court accepted the admissions and found the defendant understood the consequences of his admissions, that he had knowingly, freely, and voluntarily given up his constitutional rights, that there was a factual basis for the admissions based on documents reviewed by the court, showing that defendant had in fact suffered the prior convictions. defendant does not claim that the trial court failed to advise him of his three constitutional trial rights or take personal waivers, but he contends that nothing in the record establishes that defendant was aware of the precise penal consequences of his admissions. we agree with respondent that defendant has failed to preserve this issue for constitutional rights, however, advisement as to the consequences of a plea is not constitutionally mandated. rather, people v. walker (1991) 54 cal.3d 1013, 1022 (walker), overruled on other grounds in people v. villalobos (walker, at p. 1023.) in walker, the trial court neglected to inform the defendant that a restitution fine would be imposed when he pled guilty. as the defendant was represented by counsel and the record reflected that defense counsel was familiar with the probation report in which the fine was recommended, the california supreme court held that if the recommendation had surprise, it would have been a simple matter to bring the issue to ibid.) 46 here too, defense counsel was familiar with the penal consequences of admitting the prior convictions. the bench trial on the prior convictions and sentencing hearing were scheduled for may 16, 2018. two weeks earlier, defense counsel submitted on pursuant to people v. superior court (romero) 13 cal.4th 497, to be heard on the date of sentencing. included with the motion was a sentencing memorandum. the sentencing memorandum noted the maximum possible sentence and its component parts at page 4, as follows: b. sentencing recommendation. count 1: penal code section 187(a)(1) {25 years to life} pc 667 (a)(1): 5 years pc 12022 (b)(1): 1 year pc 667.5(b): 1 year x 3 pc 1170.12 (c)(1): strike x 2 multiplier total maximum penalty: the sentencing memorandum set forth objection to the use of the prior robbery conviction as a strike prior in addition to it being used to impose a five-year recidivist enhancement and a one-year prison prior enhancement. defendant also objected to the use of his prior methamphetamine conviction as a one-year prison prior enhancement. the memorandum concluded with a request that the prior strike conviction be stricken, and that the trial court impose a term of 25 years to life plus one year. 47 sentencing memorandum was filed, the prosecution filed its sentencing memorandum, setting forth factors in aggravation and asking the court to impose a prison term of 60 years to life. thus, defense counsel was well aware that defendant faced 25 years to life in prison, doubled to 50 years to life in prison, plus nine years if he admitted his prior convictions. moreover, at the outset of the scheduled bench trial, the trial court stated: priors. the further understanding is -- and this was already part of my sentencing -- the 11377. and i also indicafor the one- defense counsel we infer from these statements that there was an off-the-record discussion among counsel and the court prior to the hearing regarding the admissions, including the assertion in impose both a prison prior and a recidivist enhancement based upon the same robbery conviction alleged as a strike. defendant has both failed to preserve the issue for review and to demonstrate prejudice. the specified constitutional rights which renders a plea or admission involuntary and requires that it be set aside, an uninformed waiver based on the failure of the court to advise an accused of the consequences of an admission constitutes error which requires that the admission be set aside only if the error is requires the appellant to demonstrate that it is reasonably probable he would not have entered his plea if he had been told about the [consequence] (walker, supra, 54 cal.3d at pp. 1022-1023.) 48 defendant contends that the walker forfeiture and prejudice rules have no application here because the failure to advise of penal consequences in that case involved a restitution fine, not an additional 33 years in prison, as in this case. he acknowledges, however, that the advisement requirements are the same whether the court is taking a guilty plea or an admission to prior convictions. (see people v. howard, supra, 1 cal.4th at pp. 1132, 1175.) the distinction walker made was between advisement of constitutional rights and judicially declared rights, not the severity of the penal consequences. (walker, supra, 54 cal.3d at p. 1023.) defendant cites no authority holding otherwise. defendant makes no effort to demonstrate that he would not have admitted the prior convictions if he had known the precise penal consequences of his admissions. nor does he point to the record where it shows he was ignorant of the penal consequences. defendant simply claims that nothing in the record establishes that he was aware of the them, and thus reversal is required. not only do we disagree but observe that admissions were voluntary and intelligent under the totality of the circumstances, and are thus not reversible. (people v. cross, supra, 61 cal.4th at p.179, quoting people v. howard, supra, 1 cal.4th at p. 1175.) vii. cumulative error defendant contends that the cumulative effect of all the claimed found any assumed er 49 people v. sapp (2003) 31 cal.4th 240, 316.) viii. recidivist enhancement the trial court applied one five-year recidivist enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), due to defendant requests that we remand the matter in light of senate bill no. 1393 (stats. 2018, ch. 1013), which amended penal code sections 667 and 1385, effective january 1, 2019, to give trial courts discretion whether to strike recidivist enhancements for prior serious felony convictions imposed under section 667, subdivision (a). respondent agrees that remand is appropriate, as do we. the statute applies to defendant under the rule of in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 744-745. (see people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 973.) remand is required in cases such as this where the sentencing record does not indicate that the trial court ed its discretion to strike people v. superior court (romero), supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 530, fn. 13 (amended three strikes law); see also people v. billingsley (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 1076, 1080-1081 [amended firearm enhancement statute].) as the court made no comment which clearly indicates that it would not have exercised its discretion to strike the recidivist enhancement, the matter should be remanded for the limited purpose of allowing the trial court to consider whether or not to do so. (see people v. almanza (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 1104, 1110-1111.) 50 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. the matter is remanded for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether or not to strike the enhancement imposed under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). if the court elects to exercise this discretion, the defendant shall be resentenced and an amended abstract of judgment prepared and forwarded to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports. ____________________________, j. chavez we concur: __________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst __________________________, j. hoffstadt 