 filed 7/10/19 p. v. walsh ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael walsh, defendant and appellant. b290060, b291142 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma070631) appeals from a judgment and an order of the superior court of los angeles county, mildred escobedo, judge. affirmed. emry j. allen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, idan ivri and mary sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 michael walsh appeals from a judgment entered after a jury found him guilty of (1) driving under the influence (dui) of alcohol causing great bodily injury, within 10 years of another dui offense (veh. code,  23153, subd. (a) & 23560), (2) driving with 0.08 percent blood alcohol content causing injury, within 10 years of another dui offense (veh. code,  23153, subd. (b) & 23560), (3) second degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)), and (4) gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated (pen. code,  191.5, subd. (a)). as to the two dui offenses, the jury found true the special allegations that walsh inflicted great bodily injury upon the victim (pen. code,  12022.7, subd. (a)) and that he had two prior dui convictions (veh. code,  23152, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced him to 21 years to life in prison. in his appeal from the judgment (appellate case no. b290060), walsh contends the trial court committed the following reversible errors: (1) denying his motion for new trial based on insufficiency of the evidence, (2) failing to instruct the jury properly on causation, gross vehicular manslaughter, and consideration of his prior dui convictions, and (3) erroneously striking testimony from his accident reconstruction expert. finding no error, we affirm the judgment. in a consolidated appeal (appellate case no. b291142), walsh challenges the restitution award to the surviving spouse of the deceased victim ($1,113,232.80). as explained below, the trial court did not abuse its discretion, and we affirm the order. background on february 14, 2017, at around 6:00 p.m., walsh was driving his ford f-250 pickup truck around a curve on the two-lane angeles forest highway, when he crossed a double yellow 3 line and moved into oncoming traffic. his truck collided with a volkswagen the volkswagen1 truck also struck a honda accord that was driving behind the volkswageinjuries in the collision.2 evidence presented at trial showed walsh had a blood alcohol concentration level of 0.14 percent, more than one and a half times the legal limit, about two hours after the collision. there is no evidence either victim was under the influence of alcohol or drugs at the time of the collision. intoxication, walsh failed to negotiate the curve and crossed over t at trial was that the sole and superseding cause of the collision was the county of los he maintained that a pickup truck traveling at the posted speed limit (55 miles per hour) would lose traction with the road, fail to negotiate the curve, and lose control of his vehicle. i. prosecution case a. testimony from eyewitnesses regarding the accident victim graham and ashley sharp, a driver who was traveling behind graham, both testified at trial that they (and 1 the cause of death was blunt head trauma. 2 her arm was broken in five places, and her wrist was sustained a foot injury, requiring a future surgery. 4 diaz) were driving between 30 and 35 miles per hour as they approached the curve where the collision occurred. graham and opposite direction as it failed to negotiate the curve and drove into their lane. according to graham, immediately before the collision, diaen was driving in its lane and did not cross into the oncoming lane where walsh was driving. b. testimony from witnesses at the scene regarding when sharp approached walsh and spoke with him to see if he was okay, she noticed an odor of beer emanating from his based on her observations, she believed he was intoxicated. cesar mercado was driving on angeles forest highway and came upon the scene of the collision immediately after it occurred. he approached walsh and spoke with him to see if he watery eyes and slurred speech. according to his trial testimony, walsh nodded his head california highway patrol officer stephen taggart contacted walsh at the scene, as paramedics were removing him from his truck and placing him in an ambulance. taggart observed signs of intoxication: person and inside the ambulance after he was placed inside it; red, watery eyes; and slurred speech. c. sobriety and blood tests at the hospital california highway patrol officer eduardo alonzo contacted walsh at the hospital in the emergency department. 5 during his 18 years as a california highway patrol officer, alonzo conducted more than 1,000 dui investigations. he observed signs of alcohol intoxication on walsh: bloodshot eyes, slurred speech, and an odor of alcohol. accordingly, he conducted a dui investigation. alonzo asked walsh if he drank any alcohol prior to the collision. walsh told him he had consumed four 12-ounce cans of coors light beer. alonzo asked walsh when he had started and started drinking and that he stopped drinking walsh told alonzo he was driving to his home at the time of the collision. alonzo performed two field sobriety tests on walsh. first, he conducted a horizontal gaze nystagmus eye examination, having walsh follow the tip of a pencil with his eyes. alonzo normally performed the test while the person was standing, but walsh was lying down and wearing a neck brace due to the medical treatment he was receiving. alonzo observed nystagmusat th -ack of smooth pursuit, mbased on the results, he believed walsh was impaired. at 7:49 p.m., alonzo performed a preliminary alcohol screening test using a handheld device. he was only able to obtain one small breath sample from walsh due to the nature of his injuries (including a fractured leg) and the treatment he was concentration level at 0.157 percent. 6 after conducting his investigation, alonzo believed walsh was under the influence of alcohol. he arrested walsh for a dui that as a condition of his test of blood or breath when requested by a law enforcement submit to a blood test. at 8:02 p.m., around two hours after the presence. the vial was sealed in an envelope and later booked lab. first analysis showed a blood alcohol concentration level of 0.136 percent. the second analysis showed a blood alcohol concentration level of 0.146 percent. thus, the average of the two od or breath alcohol traffic collision investigation over 19 years, officer taggart conducted around 950 traffic collision investigations. he conducted the investigation in this case. based on his review of evidence at the scene, witness statements, and that mr. walsh was traveling south on angeles forest highway. mr. diaz was traveling north on angeles forest highway. they were both approaching a curve in the roadway. it was a right-hand curve for mr. walsh, a left-hand curve for mr. diaz. ms. 7 graham was traveling a few car lengths behind mr. diaz, also traveling north. the painted double yellow lines. after his truck was about two feet into the roadway [the northbound lane], he began to steer to the right. i know that because his left front tire deposited a tire friction mark, similar to a skid mark. we call it a tire friction mark because it was -- that mark was placed there due to him turning the vehicle, not necessarily applying the brakes. and when that left front tire was approximately six feet into the northbound lane, it collided with the volkswagen beetle. so the left front of the ford [pickup truck] collided with the left front of the beetle . . . . -250 [pickup truck] began to rotate or to spin in a counterclockwise direction. . . . when it impacted with the volkswagen, it rotated . . . and began to travel almost sideways down the roadway, at which time the right front of the ford collided with the front of the honda accord. direction, with the ford coming to rest where it was on the shoulder and partly hanging over the embankment and the taggart stated that crossing a double yellow line is a violation of the vehicle code. (veh. code,  21460a.) he opined that thinfluence of alcohol, which caused him to fail to stay on his side of the road, cross the double yellow lines, enter the oncoming lane, 8 of the roadway and diameter of [the] location was 55 miles per hour. taggart also testified about the basic speed law (veh. code,  22350), and explained the posted speed limit may not be a safe speed and may be a violation of the basic speed law, depending on roadway conditions. speed that a vehicle can take [a] curve and drive in the center of truck began to cross the double yellow lines and move into the calculation. taggart testified the road had signs warning that a curve les before the collision site, there were 37 curves and 13 of them had posted speed advisory signs. taggart further testified that from january 1, 2017 to december 31, 2017 there were 89 traffic collisions along an 18-mile stretch of angeles forest highway. three of those collisions occurred within six-tenths of a mile from the collision site in this case. there were no other collisions in 2017 at the particular curve where this collision occurred. on april 11, 2017, approximately 2,800 vehicles traveled south on angeles forest highway in a 24-hour period. 9 taggart interviewed walsh three times over two days. the first interview occurred at the hospital, on february 15, 2017, the day after the collision. taggart recorded the interview. walsh stated at the time of the collision, he was driving home from santa clarita, after running some errands. he lived about 12 miles south of the collision site. for two months, he had been making the drive weekly. walsh also told taggart before he left home in the morning, he drank two or three 12-ounce cans of beer. after running his errands, he stopped at a bar in santa clarita around 2:00 p.m. and drank another beer. he left the bar and headed home at around 3:30 p.m.3 walsh stated he did not remember crossing the double yellow line prior to the collision. was driving 35 miles per hour at the time of the collision. he had owned the pickup truck involved in the collision for two and a half to three years. he normally drove it, and it did not have any mechanical problems prior to the collision. during the same interview, taggart asked walsh whether he had any prior dui arrests or convictions, knowing walsh had two prior dui convictions from 2010 and 2011. walsh did not disclose those convictions. he stated he had been arrested for a dui 20 years before. taggart asked whether walsh was required to attend dui classes as a result of his arrest 20 years before. walsh responded affirmatively and stated he had attended 3 using 3:30 p.m. as the time walsh stopped drinking, and knowing that his blood draw at 8:02 p.m. showed a blood alcohol concentration level of 0.14 percent, a criminalist from the crime collision (6:00 p.m.) at between 0.14 and 0.18 percent. 10 classes where he was informed about the potential that dui could result in someone being killed. the following day, on february 16, 2017, taggart interviewed walsh twice because the first interview was interrupted when walsh received a telephone call. during these interviews, he believed he was over the legal alcohol limit of 0.08 percent at the time of the collision. walsh responded that he believed he was probably over the legal limit because he had consumed four beers in an hour and a half. he stated he did not feel the effects prior dui convictions and classes the prosecution presented certified documents showing walsh had five prior dui convictions, three in ventura county and two in los angeles county, dating from 1989 to 2011. the prosecution also presented evidence indicating walsh participated in a dui education program at least three times, including a six-month program and an 18-month program. the six-month program occurred in 2010. the programs included instruction about the dangers of drinking and driving. as part of the programs, walsh signed a watson advisement, warning him that drinking and driving could result in someone being killed and him being charged with vehicular manslaughter or murder. ii. defense case babak malek, a forensic scientist employed by the institute of risk and safety analysis, specializing in accident reconstruction, mechanical analysis, and human factors analysis, ent to the scene of the collision twice and reviewed reports and documents depicting the scene. 11 a mark collision as between 54.7 and 58.7 miles per hour. as set forth above, the speed limit at the collision site was 55 miles per hour. at the point where the collision occurred, malek calculated the critical speedthe maximum speed at which a vehicle can take a curve and maintain friction with the roadas 56.7 miles per hour. he opined a vehicle traveling at the posted speed limit of 55 miles per hour at the point where the collision occurred would lose friction with the road and be at risk of losing control of the vehicle.4 malek acknowledged there was signage prior to the collision site warning of the curve. he testified, however, that there was a speed warning sign 800 feet before the curve, but opined a speed warning sign should have been posted 200 feet before the curve to provide sufficient warning. according to malek, the speed warning sign for this curve should have been 45 miles per hour, about 10 miles per hour below the critical speed. based on a hypothetical mirroring of the facts of this case, malek opined the cause of the collision was loss of friction with the road because the driver took the curve at or near the critical speed (and the speed limit) due to the to warn 4 as set forth above, officer taggart testified that pickup truck began to cross over the double yellow line at a point before the collision site, where the critical speed was 68 miles per hour. 12 the driver to reduce his speed to 10 miles per hour under the critical speed. discussion i. appeal no. b290060 a. sufficiency of the evidence walsh contends there was insufficient evidence he caused e accident was caused by a supervening event, that is, the negligent failure of the [c]ounty of los angeles to post signs warning drivers to reduce speed heading into the curve at which the accident malfeasance caused him to lose traction, given that even a completely sober driver under similar circumstances may be moreover, he asserts the evidence he was under the influence at the time of established protocols, that it could not be considered . . . 5 in reviewing the sufficiency of the evidence, we must review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the 5 walsh points to evidence that officer alonzo conducted the horizontal gaze nystagmus examination while walsh was lying down and wearing a neck brace (instead of standing), and evidence that the phlebotomist and a criminalist did not know drawn at the hospital, on february 14, 2017, and the time it was analyzed at the crime lab two days later, on february 16, 2017. 13 defendant guilty beyond a reasonait is the jury, not an appellate court that must be convinced of the defendants guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the appellate court may not substitute its judgment for that of the jury or reverse the judgment merely because the evidence might also support a contrary findingpeople v. wolfe (2018) 20 cal.app.5th 673, 681.) viewing the evidence in a light most favorable to the walsh drank alcohol, then climbed behind the wheel of his pickup truck, knowing he was probably over the legal limit. he knew the road was curvy, as he had driven the same route in the same truck several times over the past two months. he began to cross the double yellow lines and move into oncoming traffic at a point where the critical speed was 68 miles per hour, according to officer taggart, around 10 miles faster than the speed he was traveling. this indicates loss of friction was not a factor, and he crossed the double yellow line because he was driving under the influence. there is no evidence indicating his blood sample was contaminated or improperly preserved. everyone who came into contact with him that night believed he was intoxicated, consistent with the blood test results and the field sobriety tests. substantial evidence demonstrates walsh caused the collision and there was no superseding cause. b. denial of motion for new trial walsh contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion for new trial based on insufficiency of the evidence because (1) the court did not review the evidence 14 independently and (2) the court disregarded his defense of lack of causation. we review a tris so completely within that courts discretion that a reviewing court will not disturb the ruling absent a manifest and unmistakable abuse of that discretion(people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 140.) a trial court abuses its discretion in ruling on a motion for new trial incorrect legal standard [citationspeople v. knoller (2007) 41 cal.4th 139, 156.) in ruling on a motion for new trial made on the ground that the verdict is contrary to the evidence under penal code section the trial courts function is to see that the jury intelligently and justly perform[ed] its duty and, in the exercise of a proper legal discretion, to determine whether there is sufficient credible evidence to sustain the verdict. [citation.] the trial courts duty is to review the evidence independently and satisfy itself that the evidence as a whole is sufficient to sustain the verdict.people v. dickens (2005) 130 cal.app.4th 1245, 1251.) presumption that the verdict is correct does not affect the trial courts duty to give the defendant the benefit of its independent determination as to the probative value of the evidenceid. at p. 1252.) overwhelming, indicating it independently reviewed the evidence. 15 evidence, i believe that the jurors weighed the evidence ato the jury on the question whether the evidence was sufficient to sustain the verdicts and failed to independently review the evidence. same conclusion as the jurythat walsh was guilty of the offenses. walsh further argues the trial court abused its discretion in matter of law to [his] defense of lack of causation at tri(italics omitted.) the warning signs, that this is the fault of warning signs and not the fault of the defendant. [] this is not a civil case. this has nothing to do with the warning signs, and if you want to put that argument up in a civil case, that is entirely up to you. that had that there was any viability for he court did not abuse actions caused the collision and in declining to credit the sole and superseding cause of the collision. c. jury instructions 1. causation (as an element of the murder and manslaughter charges) advis[e] the jury that if the negligence of the county was an intervening cause of death and was not foreseeable, and the 16 victim would not have died but for the intervening cause 6 using calcrim no. 240, the trial court instructed the jury, in pertinent part: an act or omission causes injury if the injury is the direct, natural, and probable consequence of the act or omission and the injury would not have happened without the act or omission. a natural and probable consequence is one that a reasonable person would know is likely to happen if nothing unusual intervenes. in deciding whether a consequence is natural and probable, consider using both calcrim no. 240 and subsequently calcrim no. 620, the trial court instructed the jury, in pertinent part: act or omission causes injury [or death], only if it is a substantial factor in causing the injury [or death]. a substantial factor is more than a trivial or remote factor. however, it does not have to 7 the remainder of calcrim no. 620, as read to the jury, states: 6 the attorney general argues walsh forfeited his contention by failing to request an additional causation instruction below. walsh argues his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance in failing to request an additional merits. 7 as read to the jury, calrcim no. 240 included the word 17 e of a third party or another person to use reasonable care may have contributed to the death. but if the the defendant is legally responsible for the death even though a third party or another person may have failed to use reasonable care. here, the trial court properly instructed the jury on an intervening cause that relieves a defendant of criminal liability, which is an unforeseeable, extraordinary and abnormal occ (people v. cervantes (2001) 26 cal.4th 860, 871.) as the court of appeal stated in people v. elder (2017) 11 cal.apthe court gave in this case (quoted above) explains sole or superseding causation. (id. at pp. 136-137 cause the jury was already that defendant could be found guilty only if the death or injury was the natural and probable consequence of his conduct, meaning that nothing u as stated in the instructions given in this case, if something unusual interveneda superseding causecause the injury or death. the trial court properly instructed the jury on causation. 2. gross vehicular manslaughter walsh contends the trial courtross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated allowed the jury to find him guilty of the offense if the jury believed he lost control of his 18 vehicle, regardless of whether the loss of control was a result of his actions to post adequate warning signs. he argues the instruction gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated is the unlawful killing of a human being without malice aforethought, in the driving of a vehicle, where the driving was in violation of section 23140, 23152, or 23153 of the vehicle code, and the killing was either the proximate result of the commission of an unlawful act, not amounting to a felony, and with gross negligence, or the proximate result of the commission of a lawful act that might produce death, in an unlawful manner, and with gross negligencen. code,  191.5, subd. (a).) negligence is the exercise of so slight a degree of care as to raise a presumption of conscious indifference to the consequences. . . . the test is objective: whether a reasonable person in the would have been aware of the risk people v. nicolas (2017) 8 cal.app.5th 1165, 1171.) the trial court instructed the jury using calcrim no. 590, stating in pertinent part: vehicular manslaughter], the people must prove that: drove while having a blood alcohol level of .08 or higher. at vehicle under the influence of alcohol, the defendant also committed an infraction or otherwise lawful act that might cause death; lawful act that might cause death with gross negligence; 19 death of a as part of this instruction, the court also informed the jury the people alleged walsh committed the following infractions: violation of the basic speed law (veh. code,  22350) and crossing double yellow parallel lines (veh. code,  21460a). in explaining element 2, the court included the following language that neither the prosecution nor the defense requested and to which the e defendant committed the following otherwise lawful act that might cause death: duty to exercise ordinary care at all times and to maintain court further informed the care to prevent reasonably foreseeable harm to someone else. a person fails to exercise ordinary care if he does something that a reasonably careful person would not do in the same situation or fails to do something that a reasonably careful person would do in 8 8 an act constituting ordinary negligence satisfies the under the influence of alcohol, the defendant also committed an infraction or otherwise lawful act that might cause death. (calcrim no. 591.) however, an infraction or mission of a negligent act or omission in the driving of a motor vehicle while intoxicated will not support a conviction of gross vehicular manslaughter unless intoxication or the manner in which he drove evidences gross negligencenot mere inadvertencebut a conscious disregard of 20 portion of the instructionthat it allowed the jury to find him guilty of gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated if the jury merely found he lost control of the vehicle, regardless of whether the jury believed his actions caused him to lose control of was solely responsible for the loss of control of the vehicle. considering the instructions as a whole, as we must (people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1075), and not considering in isolation only the challenged portion of the instruction, we unreasonable. the instruction clearly states the jury could not find walsh guilty of the offense unless it found beyond a reasonable doubt (1) he drove under the influence, (2) he committed one of the enumerated infractions, or failed to exercise ordinary care, (3) he committed the act with gross negligence, to the extent he lost control of the vehicle through no fault of his ownwithout engaging in grossly negligent conductthe plain language of the instruction did not permit the jury to find him guilty of the offense. the trial court did not err in instructing the jury on gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated. 3. prior dui convictions walsh contends the trial court erred in instructing the jury it could consider evidence of his prior dui convictions for the (people v. hansen (1992) 10 cal.app.4th 1065, 1078.) 21 using calcrim no. 375, the trial court instructed the jury, in pertinent part: the people presented evidence that the defendant committed other offenses that were not charged in this case, that the defendant was previously convicted of driving under the influence in los angeles county. the people also presented other acts or behavior by the defendant that was not charged in this case that included that the defendant was charged with driving under the influence of alcohol in prior cases from ventura county. offenses and or acts, you may, but are not required to, consider that evidence for the limited purpose of deciding whether: alleged in this case. mistake or accident. cs added.) walsh objected to the italicized portion of the instruction (on grounds not specified), and the trial court overruled the objection. on appeal, walsh contends the trial court erred in giving the italicized portion of the instruction because he did not assert a defense of accident or mistake at trial. he does not argue the trial court erred in admitting evidence of his prior the trial court did not err in including the italicized portion of the instruction because substantial evidence demonstrates the he knowingly drove drunk and failed to properly control his 22 vehicle due to his intoxication. moreover, his theory of the case was that the failure to post adequate warning signs. even if the challenged portion of the instruction was extraneous, walsh was not prejudiced under state law or federal constitutional standardsjurors or some of them concluded from the giving of the [challenged portion of the] instruction that [his] dui priors somehow made the county less negligent in failing to post the challenged portion of the it had no impact on his defense that he was blameless and the adequate warning signs. dreconstruction expert walsh contends accident reconstruction expert. during direct examination, defense counsel asked malek to the form of a lengthy narrative, which the trial court stopped after malek scenario where his vehicle would lose traction which happened in this scenariothe court permit him to continue to go on and talk about this case 23 discussion with counsel concluded, the court informed the jury, direct examination, asking malek questions about a hypothetical situation and not this case specifically. walsh argues that by interposing its own objection and striking the answer to this question, defenthe record is unreasonable. in response to questions about a hypothetical situation mirroring the facts of this case, malek testified that the cause of the collision was loss of friction; that a vehicle traveling at the speed limit of 55 miles per hour would lose friction at the curve where the collision occurred; and that there should have been a sign warning drivers to reduce their speed to 45 miles per hour on the curve. e 9 ii. appeal no. b291142 walsh contends the trial court erred in calculating the restitution award, nstitutional proscriptions against excessive fines and cruel and unusual a. proceedings below the prosecution moved the trial court for an order awarding widow his past and future lost wages in the amount of $1,113,232.80. the prosecution attached to the motion 9 walsh also contends we must reverse his convictions based on cumulative error. we have found no error to cumulate. 24 los angeles county department of human resources, stating mr. diaz was a deputy compliance officer, who was employed by the county from november 22, 1991 to the time of his death on february 14, 2017, earning a semi-monthly gross salary of $4,877.69 and a semi-monthly net salary of $2,929.56. the -2, wage and tax statement, which lists wages consistent with the salary stated on the employment verification form. mr. diaz was 48 years old when he died. it is undisputed he was the sole provider for his wife and four children (two of whom were in college and two of whom were minors). the prosecution alleged in th the additional years he was planning on working) for a total of $1,054,641.60, and then adding the net salary he would have earned in the year 2017 for the months march through december at the hearing on the restitution motion, defense counsel here are not sufficient facts supporting the restitution, the defense for its calculation, and defense counsel responded, statutory or case law reference that you have, [defense counsel], that makes reference to we cannot give [sic] restitution for future 25 defense counsel made no further objection to or argument against the requested restitution award. calculation was permitted by people v. giordano (2007) 42 cal.4th 644 (giordano), a case and by the prosecutor at the hearing. the court issued an order awarding restitution in the amount requested by the prosecution. b. legal standards the california constitution providesordered from the convicted wrongdoer in every case, regardless of the sentence or disposition imposed, in which a crime victim (b).) penal code section 1202.4, which implemented this constitutional mandatconduct, the court shall require that the defendant make restitution to the victim or victims in an amount established by court order, based on the amount of loss claimed by the victim or pen. code,  1202.4, subd. (f); people v. millard (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 7, 24-25 (millard).) ection 1202.4 does not itself provide guidelines for c(giordano, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 664.) at a victim restitution hearing, a prima facie case for restitution is made by the people based in part on a victims testimony on, or other claim or statement of, the amount of his or her economic loss. once the victim has [i.e., the people have] made a prima facie showing of his or her loss, the burden shifts to the defendant to demonstrate that the amount of the loss is other than that claimed by the victimmillard, 26 supra, 175 cal.app.4th at p. 26.) the standard of proof is a preponderance of the evidence. (ibid.) discretion broad discretion to choose a method for calculating the amount of restitution, it must employ a method that is rationally designed giordano, supra, 42 cal.4th at pp. 663-664.) there is no requirement the restitution order be limited to the exact amount of the loss in which the defendant is actually found culpable, nor is there any requirement the order reflect the amount of damages that might be recoverable in a civil actionmillard, supra, 175 cal.app.4th at pp. 26-27.) generally, the calculation of the loss of support may be informed by such factors as the earning history of the deceased spouse, the age of the survivor and decedent, and the degree to which the decedents income provided support to the survivors household. these guideposts are not provided as an exhaustive list. naturally the courts discretion will be guided by the particular factors at play in each individual claim(giordano, at p. 665.) courts have upheld restitution awards calculated by multiplying gross salary by the number of years until projected retirement. (millard, supra, 175 cal.app.4th at pp. 29-30; see giordano, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 666 restitution based on a period of five yearscounsel indicated, decedent was relatively young when he was killed and the court could have calculated loss of support using a c. analysis 27 walsh contends the trial court abused its discretion in adopting tno work another fifteen years, which was the sole basis for the monthly income.millard, supra, 175 cal.app.4th 7, the injured accident victim testified at the to continue [working in the construction] industry until his retirement had it not been for the [motorcycle-id. at p. 29.) here, mr. diaz was deceased and could not testify at the restitution hearing about his future lost earnings. the calculation the prosecution employed and the court adopted, using a retirement age of 63, (giordano, supra, 42 cal.4th at pp. 663-664.) in millard, the prosecution based its calculation on an assumption the victim would have retired sometime between 65 and 67 years old, later than the assumption made in this case. (millard, at p. 29.) walsh also argues the trial court abused its discretion in survived, would have gone to his own expenses as opposed to those of his wife; and, based on the record, would at some point have gone to the support of grown children (for whom ms. diaz presumably would not be financially responsibleas discussed above, the giordano, supra, 42 cal.4th at pp. 663-664; millard, supra, 175 cal.app.4th at pp. 26-27.) of gross, the 28 prosecution already discounted the amount. the trial court did not abuse its broad discretion to fashion a restitution award. ssive walsh forfeited this claim by failing to object on this basis below. (people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 403; people v. burgener (2003) 29 cal.4th 833, 886.) but even if he had objected, the claim lacks merit. walsh has cited no authority, and we are aware of none, holding constitutional proscriptions against excessive fines and cruel and unusual punishments apply to a restitution award calculated from a method rationally designed to determine a surviving disposition the judgment and order are affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. weingart, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 