 filed 5/22/19 p. v. castillo ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. mary jo castillo, defendant and appellant. b290054 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya093666) appeal from postjudgment orders of the superior court of los angeles county, eric c. taylor, judge. appeal from order revoking probation dismissed; appeal from order denying motion to set aside and reconsider affirmed. marks & brooklier and donald b. marks for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and gregory b. wagner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________ 2 introduction mary jo castillo contends the trial court erred in revoking her probation and subsequently denying her motion to set aside and reconsider that order. we dismiss as untimely her appeal from the order revoking probation and otherwise affirm. factual and procedural history a. in march 2016 castillo pleaded no contest to money laundering (pen. code,  186.10, subd. (a))1 for her role in a scheme to defraud an automobile broker that resulted in a $2 million loss to the broker. the trial court sentenced castillo to three years in prison, suspended execution of the sentence, and placed castillo on probation for three years. among the terms and conditions of probation were that castillo pay restitution to the victim, obey all court orders and all rules and regulations of the probation department, and seek and maintain employment as approved by the probation officer. in september 2017 the parties stipulated to further orders clarifying the terms and conditions relating to restitution, including that castillo was jointly and severally liable with two co-defendants for the $2 million loss to the victim and that she would make regular payments on that obligation to the probation department. to determine cthe trial court ordered her to meet with the probation department financial evaluator and the revenue enhancement unit and to bring with her documentation relating to her finances, including tax returns from 2012 through the present, a list of all assets and 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 liabilities, and bank account records. point is to be able to track her finances and loss of the victim . . . . if it becomes apparent that there has been an effort to cover that up, or an effort not to share information, that will constitute a as of january 2018, when the trial court held a hearing on her ability to pay restitution, castillo was making monthly payments of $25. based on information she provided the financial evaluator, however, the evaluator had determined her monthly disposable income was $18,824 and recommended monthly restitution payments of $8,000. at the hearing (and at another hearing shortly after), the court expressed its dissatisfaction with the amount of her failure to provide the financial evaluator with the documentation the court had ordered her to provide, and her lack of cooperation with the financial evaluator. at one point the court remarked it states that there [were] so many failures to provide he court scheduled a probation violation hearing for february 14, 2018. at that hearing the financial evaluator testified castillo did not bring any financial documents to their first meeting, did not bring to subsequent meetings many of the documents requested by the evaluator, and provided information that appeared to be false. the court found castillo violated the terms of her probation. scathing reports i have seen an evaluator give . . . , saying information they need to provide an citing 4 the court ordered castillo to serve the previously suspended three-year prison term. b. set aside and reconsider the order revoking probation in march 2018 castillo filed a motion to set aside the order revoking probation under section 1203.2, subdivision (e). she argued there was good cause to set aside the order because she could not make monthly restitution payments of $8,000 as recommended by the financial evaluator. she also argued she did not produce the financial documents the court had ordered because her husband had efused to cooperate in the court proceedings. their 2016 joint personal income tax return, which she previously withheld, and her husband was willing to provide his 2016 corporate income tax return. evaluation of her dispoorder, but did not provide any authority or argument to support that request. at a hearing on march 28, 2018 the trial court denied the motion. the court stated its decision to revoke probation based on payments being adequate or even the amount of but refusing to cooperate with the financial evaluator. iregarding the 2016 personal income tax return, the court observed that it was a joint return, that castillo therefore had the power and obligation to objection, and that castillo had nt that her 5 new fact warranting reconsideration, observing that the financial evaluator had testified to his lack of on may 4, 2018 castillo filed her notice of appeal, which states she is h 28, 2018. discussion a. of the order revoking probation is untimely 2018. that order was appealable (see  1237, subd. (b); people v. robinson (1954) 43 cal.2d 143, 145 an order revoking probation made after entry of judgment is appealablethe notice of appeal from it, filed may 4, 2018, was untimely. (see cal. rules a notice of appeal . . . must be filed within 60 days after the rendition of the judgment or the making of the order being appealedtherefore, we dismiss as untimely b. the trial court did not err in motion to set aside and reconsider the order revoking probation as a preliminary matter, we have some concern whether the notice of appealthe trial motion to set aside and reconsider the order revoking probation. we also have some 6 appealable. (compare people v. buccheri (1969) 2 cal.app.3d 842, 845 [efusing to set aside an order revoking and people v. ross (1962) 206 cal.app.2d 542, 543 [order denying motion to reconsider order denying probation is not appealable] with people v. totari (2002) 28 cal.4th 876, 886-887 (totari) [unlike an order denying a nonstatutory postjudgment motion to vacate, an order denying a motion to vacate under section 1016.5 is appealable because, nce the legislature has determined that a noncitizen defendant has a substantial right to be given complete advisements and affords defendant a means to obtain relief by way of a statutory postjudgment motion to vacaloses its urgency and a denial order qualifies as an order made after judgment, affecting the substantial rights of the ] and teal v. superior court (2014) 60 cal.4th 595, 600 [citing totari in holding an order denying a petition under section and provides a remedy by way of a statutory postjudgment .)2 in any event, the trial court did not err in denying section 1203.2, subdivision (e), authorizes the trial court to set aside an order revoking probation, and we review the 2 the people, citing section 1237, subdivision (b), suggest the the filing of -judgment motion to set aside the probation revocation order and for reconsideration did not extend the time to appeal. -judgment order denying the motion was separately appealable and required a separate notice of appeal. 7 for abuse of discretion. (see people v. drew (2017) 16 cal.app.5th castillo argues there was good cause to set aside the revocation order (of any amount, presumably) financial evaluator in furnishing the required documentation thas the trial court made abundantly clear, however, her inability to pay, but for her failure to cooperate with the court and the financial evaluator. and the testimony and report of the evaluator amply supported the castillo was not cooperating. castillo also argues the court erred in denying her request to reconsider the revocation order. but in the trial court castillo cited no authority for such a request, and she cites none now. and for example, returns, were now available for the couthese amounted to nothing more than an announcement castillo was now ready to cooperate. that is not the sort of warrants reconsideration. (cf. even zohar construction & remodeling, inc. v. bellaire townhouses, llc (2015) 61 cal.4th 830, 833 [party moving for reconsideration under code of civil explanation for not presenting the new or different information ].) the trial court did not abuse its discretion. (see people v. alexander (2010) 49 cal.4th 846, 871 [reviewing denial of a motion for reconsideration for abuse of discretion].) 8 disposition the appeal from is dismissed as untimely. tset aside and reconsider the order revoking probation is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. feuer, j. 