filed 10/30/18 p. v. burton ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jason william burton, defendant and appellant. b290064 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta039158) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, h. clay jacke ii, judge. affirmed. jason william burton, in pro. per.; and john f. schuck, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 in 1998, jason william burton (burton) shot and wounded a stranger without any provocation and tried to shoot another stranger. facing the prospect of 75 years to life in prison, burton agreed during trial to plead no contest to one count of attempted murder and admit a firearm enhancement in exchange for a sentence of 30 years to life in state prison. in 2018, 19 years after being sentenced, burton filed a motion to withdraw his plea on the ground that he agreed in 1999 to serve a sentence of 30 years, not 30 years to life. the trial on and this appeal followed. we have reviewed the record, the briefing by burtonappointed appellate counsel, and the supplemental briefing submitted by burton himself. we affirm the judgment. background i. the attempted murder1 on april 14, 1998, burton, while riding a bike, approached two men who were walking on the sidewalk. after burton asked the men whether shortly thereafter, burton rode back toward the menps, and then began shooting at the men. both men ran away from burton. as one of the men ran across the street, burton shot him four times. as the wounded man watched, burton reloaded his 1 preliminary hearing. 3 gun and fired at the other man as he fled the scene; the other man escaped, however, without being shot. ii. plea the people charged burton with two counts of attempted willful, deliberate, premeditated murder (pen. code,2  187, subd. (a), 664) and two counts of assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)). in addition, the people asserted a number of special allegations. for example with regard to the attempted murder count for the man burton wounded, the people alleged that burton discharged a firearm which caused great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subd. (d)).3 on december 2, 1998, during trial and after the man he wounded had testified, and after his public defender showed him , burton accepted a plea deal that the people had originally offered to burton before trial. in exchange for burtonagreement to plead no contest to one count of attempted murder and to admit the allegation that he discharged a firearm which caused great bodily injury, the people agreed to dismiss all of the remaining counts and allegations. before he changed his plea from not guilty to no contest, the people advised burton that without the plea deal he potentially faced to lifecounts. (italics added.) in addition, the people advised him that 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 section 12022.53, subdivision (d), is a sentence enhancement for crimes such as attempted muradditional and consecutive term of imprisonment in the state prison for 25 years to life 4 under the terms of his plea agreement he would serve a prison term of 30 years to life; specifically, his sentence would be the years to life on the [section] 12022.53, subdivision (d) allegation making it 30 years to life (italics added.) when the trial court explained to burton the consequences of his plea, it advised him life term (italics added.) when the trial court asked burton if he had any iii. attempts to withdraw his plea on february 16, 1999, at the sentencing hearing,4 the trial 5 on february 29, 2018, burton filed a motion to withdraw his conversations with his counsel, he was to serve a sentence of 30 years and not . . . trial court allowed burton, who was represented by a public defender different than the one who represented him at trial and 4 hearing. 5 sentence was 30 years, not 30 years to life as required by section 12022.53, subdivision (d). as a result, the original abstract of judgment incorrectly showed a sentence of five years on the attempted murder count plus 25 years on the firearm enhancement rather than 25 years to life. 5 at the plea hearing, the time of the plea agreement. burton explained to the trial court that his prior public defender explained the plea agreement to him and told him get; as a result, burton accepted the offer. however, burton told the trial court further that going to be a total of 30 [years] to life, [he] would never [have after hearing rial court went through the transcript of the plea hearing, noting on the record a number of instances when burton was advised at that hearing that his sentence under the plea agreement would be 30 years to life. when the trial court asked burton for a response to the evidence from the plea hearing contradicting his testimony, burton declined to provide one. transcript of the plea, the trial court denied the motion, finding gain, which was the [five] years plus the [section] 12022.53[, subdivision] (d) allegation, which was then, and now, 25 [years] to life, for a total of 30 years 6 burton timely appealed. on july 2, 2018, we appointed counsel to represent burton. on august 22, 2018, after examining the record, his counsel filed an opening brief raising no issues and asking this court to independently review the record. on that same day, burton filed his own separate supplemental brief. 6 the trial court also ordered that the abstract of judgment be corrected so that it reflects a sentence of 30 years to life. 6 discussion i. governing law and standard of review a. good cause required for plea withdrawal section 1018, governing the withdrawal of guilty pleas, provides: judgment . . . the court may, . . . for a good cause shown, permit the plea of guilty to be withdrawn and a plea of not guilty defendant was operating under mistake, ignorance, or any other factor overcoming the exercise of his free judgment. [citations.] other factors overcoming defendants free judgment include burden is on the defendant to present clear and convincing evidence the ends of justice would be subserved by permitting a people v. sandoval (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 111, 123.) uld not be set (people v. hunt be withdrawn simply because the defendant has changed his people v. nance (1991) 1 cal.app.4th 1453, 1456.) b. denial of an application to withdraw a plea is purely within the discretion of the trial court after consideration of all factors necessary to bring about a just result. [citations.] on appeal, 7 s decision will be upheld unless there is a clear (people v. shaw (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 492, 495-(people v. fairbank (1997) 16 cal.4th 1223, 1254.) a trial court capricious or patently absurd manner resulting in a manifest miscapeople v. shaw, at p. 496.) ii. no abuse of discretion in his supplemental brief, burton argues, as he did below, not have entered a plea . . . [and] would have requested a jury for support, burton relies on the original minute order from the sentencing hearing and the original abstract of judgment, both of which indicated that his sentence would be 30 years, not 30 years to life. bis without merit, because, as the transcript of the plea hearing makes clear, burton was repeatedly advised that the plea agreement involved a life sentence. both the prosecutor and the trial court advised burton that his plea of no contest would result in an indeterminate life sentence. moreover, the record of the taking of the plea shows that burton stated that he understood the offer and wanted to take it he understood the charges against him and needed no additional time to speak with his attorney or the trial court. he stated that he understood his constitutional rights and knowingly and voluntarily waived each of them. 8 in short, given the evidence from the plea hearing, the trial court did not act in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner when it denied his admission. put a little differently, burton failed to meet his heavy burden of showing by clear and convincing evidence that mistake, fraud, ignorance or duress. since the trial court did not abuse its discretion, we affirm. furthermore, we have examined the entire record, and we are satisfhis responsibilities and that no arguable issues exist. (people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 109-110; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441.) 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. currey, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 