filed 6/11/19 p. v. montes ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. armando montes, defendant and appellant. b290304 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba456586) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. affirmed. charlotte e. costan, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 armando montes appeals the judgment entered after a jury convicted him of a lewd act upon a child under the age of 14, his then 11-year-old stepdaughter eva. the jury also found true that montes, who impregnated eva, personally inflicted bodily harm and great bodily injury on eva. on appeal montes contends the trial court improperly excluded testimony from his medical expert at trial concerning the likelihood of a woman becoming pregnant after touching her vagina with semen deposited outside the vagina. montes also asserts there was insufficient evidence to support the verdict. we affirm. factual and procedural background a. the information the information charged montes with one count of committing a lewd act upon a child under the age of 14 in violation of penal code1 section 288, subdivision (a). the information was amended at trial to allege the offense was committed between june 1, 2016 and august 31, 2016. the information specially alleged montes personally inflicted bodily harm and great bodily injury on eva within the meaning of section 667.61, subdivisions (a), (d)(6) and (7). b. the prosecution case 1. lay witness testimony e science teacher in 2017 taught sexual education, which covered the male and female anatomy, 1 all statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 reproductive systems, sexual diseases, and how a woman becomes pregnant. the teacher explained to the class how a sperm cell fertilizes the egg and what semen is, and she showed the class a photograph of a sperm cell. however, she did not describe what semen looked like. eva testified she was born in july 2004. in 2016 she lived at jessica mendez; her aunt; her three school-age younger sisters, who were nine, seven, and six years old; and her baby sister. at that time her school-age younger sisters attended elementary school with eva. on march 16, 2017, when eva was 12 years old, she gave birth to a baby girl.2 according to eva, she had never had sexual relations before she gave birth. eva first learned she was pregnant when she went to the hospital for stomach pain on march 15. montes and mendez took her to the hospital, but mendez left briefly to retrieve her telephone charger. only montes was in the room with eva when the doctors told her she was pregnant. mendez returned to the hospital about 10 minutes later. when the hospital staff first asked eva how she got pregnant, she told them she did not know. the first person eva told how she got pregnant was her mother. eva explained she got pregnant after asleep in the bedroom. eva went into the bedroom to look for something with which she would normally sleep, like a teddy bear. eva believed montes and mendez had just had sexual intercourse, but she was not sure. once in the room, eva found clothes on the 2 eva would have been 11 years old when she became pregnant, given testimony she was 37 weeks pregnant at the time she gave birth. 4 floor and, because she did not like messes, she picked up the clothes [w]hite stuff on part of her hand had the white substance on it. she also did not know what it was. after eva left the bedroom, she went to either the bathroom or her bedroom to touch her vagina. at trial eva did not recall what part of her vagina she touched or for how long. she did not recall why she touched her vagina with the white substance or whether she did anything to wash the substance off. when asked at trial recounted that after she learned she was pregnant, she discussed with her mother what masturbation was, and based on that conversation eva testified she may have touched herself in a manner that was masturbation. on the same day, after eva spoke with her mother, los angeles police officers robert calzadillas and abel munoz interviewed eva at the hospital. although montes was alone in the room with eva, officer calzadillas had him step out of the room for the interview. eva initially stated she did not know how she became pregnant because she never had sexual intercourse. after the officers continued to ask eva questions, she recounted the date night incident and suggested that may have been how she became pregnant. in describing the incident, she stated that after picking sudden itch to scratch her vagina area so she scratched herself; and then after that, she noticed she had a white clear liquid on her when asked at trial why she had not told the police officers or anyone else prior to the preliminary hearing that she was 5 masturbating, eva explained she did not know what masturbation was until her mother told her. eva also testified that although she knew sexual intercourse could result in pregnancy, she did not know pregnancy was caused by semen. she could not explain given her lack of understanding that the sticky substance on her hand was semen, or that semen was responsible for pregnancy, why she told the police officers during their interview at the hospital about touching herself with semen. eva testified about her home situation. typically her aunt or montes would pick her up from school sometime between 4:00 and 4:30 p.m. there were always two adults at her home. because late, typically eva and her siblings were in the house with montes on the weekends eva was home with only montes and her siblings. after montes was arrested, eva felt terrible because she biological dad wasn on cross-examination, eva testified she had never been sexually assaulted. although mendez described masturbation to eva, mendez never told her that she needed to use that word. eva was not afraid of montes; he had been a caring father figure, and he did not teach her to lie or tell her what to tell the police. 2. expert testimony dr. earl fuller, an obstetrician/gynecologist, testified as the 6 fertility treatment. the prosecutor inquired of dr. fuller about a hypothetical mirroring the facts of -year-old girl touches clothes and after she touches the clothes, she has semen on her hands . . . . then she goes back to bed and at some asked his opinion about the feasibility of the girl becoming pregnant, dr. [s]o slight [as] to be dr. fuller based his opinion on the following factors: the semen on the clothes was exposed to outside air; semen dries very quan hour [and in] if [the semen has] been on the clothing for two hours, a half an hour, a good portion of them are dead. and if she gets them on her girl gets it on her hand hing with just the end of her finger. s transfer only a small amount of sperm to her vagina, which amount is not consistent with becoming pregnant. in addition, young touch the clitoral area which is quite a bit removed from the opening of the vagina. [a] . . . introduce enough sperm into the vagina to dr. fuller explained it takes approximately one million sperm to dissolve the protective capsule surrounding the egg to enable a in addition, the sperm needs to trave 7 fallopian tube, which is caused by the deposit of the sperm in the back wall of the vagina by an erect penis, which, as a result of contractions of the uterus, streams into the mucous of the cervix, where the sperm find the opening to the fallopian tube. many of ejaculate contains on average 250 million sperm, but only 10 percent travel to the uterus, and of this amount, many do not get through the tiny opening to the fallopian tube. in addition, if a woman is scratching the vagina or masturbating, any sperm on the fingers would be deposited near the opening of the vagina, and it would have to travel approximately 11 inches to the opening of the cervix. as a result, kills the sperm, most of the sperm would be lost to the acid as the ign to further attack the sperm. although a woman can become pregnant where a male ejaculates outside of the vagina, this occurs only if there are at least 250 million sperm put inside or next to the vagina. on cross-examination, dr. fuller admitted it was not scientifically confirmed that sperm could live only up to two hours on a piece of clothing. further, if the temperature in the room was [t] more time to masturbates, would become pregnant, dr. but you 8 medicine. [] . . . [] . . . christina nash, a forensic dna analyst, analyzed the dna 3 nash opined based on her testing there was a 99.99 percent probability montes c. the defense case eva was pregnant. when his attorney inquired why montes did not at that time ask eva how she got pregnant, montes responded he o have enough trust in [him] to just tell [him] and not to force her to tes was not allowed near eva. montes denied ever sexually touching eva. even after the police officers told him during their interrogation at the police station that eva had confessed to having sex with him, montes continued to deny having sexual intercourse with her. montes also denied ever being alone with eva or with eva and baby sister. when asked about having sexual intercourse with mendez, montes , because . . . tead, he ejaculated on her stomach, and the [w] vasonne mcdonald, a social worker for the los angeles county department of children and family services, interviewed eva on march 15, 2017. eva 3 los angeles police detective jose olmedo took swabs from 9 on which she picked up the clothing in the bedroom and there was white substance on her vagina because she was curious. eva denied she was sexually abuseyounger sisters and did not observe any signs of prior sexual or physical abuse. testimony, that when the officers responded to the hospital on march 15, eva was in the hospital room, and montes was in the hallway. on cross-examination, officer munoz stated montes was [c]appear to be in shock. d. victor vargas was an employee of an after-school program that eva and her three sisters attended. he reviewed the records of september younger sisters were picked up on those dates at approximately 6:00 p.m., when the program ended. clarissa cota was the property manager at the building where montes, mendez, eva, grandmother lived in 2016. cota maintained detailed logs by date and time of people who entered and left the apartment, based on surveillance footage from the building. cota described the records from september 8, 9, 14, 15, and 27, 2016. the records showed montes on some of the dates entering alone with a girl and a baby, although cota did not know the name of the girl. the records also showed that on september 8 the other family members were not in 10 the apartment during a portion of the time in which montes was there with the girl and the baby.4 natalie cortez, a social worker for the los angeles county department of children and family services, interviewed montes in april 2017. montes told her that when he had sexual intercourse with mendez, he would ejaculate inside her vagina; he denied he had ever ejaculated outside of her on clothing, rags, or anything similar. e. the defense surrebuttal mendez testified that when she first asked eva at the hospital how she became pregnant, eva responded she did not know. had touched her vagina after getting the white substance on her described masturbation to her after eva stated she touched herself. , but [it wa according to mendez, montes was never alone with eva. in 2016 eva and her three school-age sisters were in the same k-8 school, and all four left the after-school program at the same time. therefore, there were always other siblings in the apartment when 4 the people argue the surveillance logs showed montes lied about never being alone with eva because the logs reflected he was alone with her on all five dates. however, the logs only established montes was alone with eva and the baby on september 8, 2016 from 4:36 to 4:49 p.m. on the other dates montes was alone with eva before entering the apartment, but another adult was present inside the apartment. 11 eva was there. in addition, mendez, the grandmother, or the aunt were always home in the afternoon when the children came home. when mendez was asked whether montes would ejaculate inside her, she respondedpurposefully avoiding becoming pregnant. when montes ejaculated outside her vagina, mendez used a shirt or something else to clean off the ejaculate. f. the verdict and sentence following closing arguments and jury instructions, the jury found montes guilty of committing a lewd act upon a child under the age of 14, and found true the allegation montes personally inflicted bodily harm and great bodily injury on eva within the meaning of section 667.61, subdivisions (a), (d)(6) and (7).5 the trial court sentenced montes to 25 years to life in prison. montes timely appealed. discussion a. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding the testimony of dr. steven gabaeff montes contends the trial court erred in excluding the testimony of dr. steven gabaeff about the likelihood of a woman 5 section 667.61, subdivision (a), provides for a sentence of 25 years to life if the defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury on the victim ( 667.61, subd. (d)(6)) or personally inflicted bodily harm on a victim who was under 14 years of age ( 667.61, subd. (d)(7)). the jury found the allegations under both section 667.61, subdivision (d)(6) and (7), to be true. 12 becoming pregnant by touching her vagina with semen, which became pregnant. the trial court did not abuse its discretion. 1. testimony of dr. gabaeff the people moved to exclude dr. e ground he was not qualified to render an expert opinion on the likelihood of semen. dr. gabaeff later testified outside the presence of the jury pursuant to evidence code section 402. dr. gabaeff practiced emergency medicine during the prior 40 years and clinical forensic medicine during 30 of those years. during that time, he delivered approximately 20 babies and talked with hundreds or thousands of women who were concerned about their pregnancies. dr. gabaeff was also the past director of a sexual assault response team, which responded to cases of unintentional pregnancies. in this role he was involved in approximately 1,500 cases involving alleged sexual assault. over the prior 30 years dr. gabaeff had testified as an expert in emergency medicine, forensic medicine, and sexual abuse, but he was not on the obstetrics/gynecology panel of experts because he dr. gabaeff confirmed he did not have an internship or residency in obstetrics and gynecology and was not board certified in obstetrics and gynecology. neither had he ever published an article addressing how a woman becomes pregnant. with respect to how sperm cause a woman to become pregnant, dr. gabaeff first learned about the fertilization process 13 during his biology assault response team. when asked how he amplified his knowledge, dr. [t]change[] . . . sienhanced his knowledge through talking with pregnant women, reading about pregnant women, and learning of the events and circumstances that caused the women to become pregnant as part of his clinical forensic work. when questioned about the bases of his opinion about the amount of sperm in a milliliter of semen, dr. gabaeff testified he relied on five articles to validate the numbers he believed were the rtilizing his dr. gabaeff described web m.d. as a web site with medical information for lay people to use, as well as but he added, s consumers now than it was before . . . .dr. gabaeff also consulted a mayo clinic article entitled low sperm count as one of his reference materials for the amount of sperm in semen. he obtained the article from a public web site and noted [a]nybody can go montesdr. gabaeff opinion that requires any special knowledge beyond . . . how court that dr. gabaeff delivered 20 babies, the trial court noted this experiendr. gabaeff was qualified to testify about how much sperm is in a certain amount of ejaculate and how the 14 sperm travel through the vagina to the fallopian tube.6 the trial that dr. gabaeff lacked sufficient qualifications to testify as an expert on the likelihood of eva becoming impregnated by touching 7 2. applicable law evidence code section 720, subdivision (a), provides that a knowledge, skill, experience, training, or education sufficient to qualify him as an expert on the subject to which his [or her] tesrelated to the particular subject upon which he is giving expert testimony. qualifications on related subject matter are (people v. hogan (1982) 31 cal.3d 815, 852 (hogan) [criminalist was not qualified to testify as to whether blood on by contact, where he had read a book about blood patterns and observed bloodstains at crime scenes, but had never performed a 6 montes points out that had dr. gabaeff testified, he would have provided an opinion consistent with his report, in which he with virtual 100% certainty (i.e. > 95% step daughter, hereafter (eva), are plausible, highly probable and 7 on appeal montes points to dr. report to support an gabaeff stated in his admitted into evidence, and it does not appear from the appellate 15 laboratory analysis of blood patterns], disapproved on another ground in people v. cooper (1991) 53 cal.3d 771, 836; accord, howard entertainment, inc. v. kudrow (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 1102, 1115 (howard entertainment); see california shoppers, inc. v. royal globe ins. co. (1985) 175 cal.app.3d 1, 66-that the purported expert may be qualified in one field vaguely related to another does not mean that he is qualified in that other ar case . . . depends upon the facts of the case and the witnesss . . . whether the witness has sufficient skill or experience in the field so his testimony would be likely to assist the jury in the search for howard entertainment, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at p. 1115, citation omitted; accord, brown v. colm (1974) 11 cal.3d 639, 645 (brown); abm industries overtime cases (2017) 19 cal.app.5th 277, 293.) court bases its ruling on a conclusion of law (which we review de novo), we review its ruling (sargon enterprises, inc. v. university of southern california (2012) 55 cal.4th 747, 773 (sargon); accord, people v. jones (2012) 54 s determination that a witness qualifies as an expert is a matter of discretion that will not be people v. ramos (1997) 15 cal.4th 1133, including foundational requirements, rests in the sound discretion of the trial court . . . [,] [which] is necessarily broad . . . . (citations omitted.) . . . [is] le person 16 sargon, at p. 773; accord, property california scjlw one corp. v. leamy (2018) 25 cal.app.5th 1155, 1162.) montes relies on the language in sargon that trial courts as here, (sargon, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 773; accord, abm industries overtime cases, supra, 19 cal.app.5th at pp. 293, 295-296 [trial database management and analysis where expert had extensive experience in database management and analysis, but had no formal education or membership in professional organizations on the subject matter]; avivi v. centro medico urgente medical center (2008) 159 cal.app.4th upon by a party because of an erroneous view of his or her qualifications in a case where expert testimony is essential is an the only expert called by a party, we must review whether the sargon, at p. 776 [trial court did not abuse its discretion in lost profits where his calculations were based on speculative methodology].) montes also relies on the holding in brown, in which the trial court excluded the testimony of a surgeon who had medical training and experience regarding the standard of care in repairing a vaginal fistula with stainless steel sutures during the period of his medical practice, but based his opinion on the standard of care in effect 10 years before he started practicing of the available medical literature. (id. at p. 642.) the supreme court concluded the trial court erred in excluding the testimony because the doctor had relevant professional experience on the 17 subject, and he properly relied on the medical literature to opine on whether the practice was the same 10 years earlier, observing that had no practical experience upon which to base his testimony and relies entirely upon textual material for his opinion . . . id. at pp. 643-644.) the court reasoned that the doctor had the trustworthy authorities and the proper sources of information, as well as a degree of personal observation of the general subject (id. at p. 644, citing 2 wigmore on evidence (1940)  665b, pp. 784-785.) further, it was unlikely the plaintiff would have been able to find an expert with the specialized experience relevant to a surgery performed 23 years before trial. (brown, at p. 644.) 3. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding the testimony of dr. gabaeff montes contends the trial court abused its discretion because dr. gabaeff was a qualified doctor with sufficient background about human anatomy, how much sperm is contained in the ejaculate, how much sperm is needed to fertilize an egg, and how the sperm travels through the vagina to the fallopian tube to fertilize the egg. dr. gabaeff had experience as an emergency room doctor in the delivery of babies, he lacked any relevant experience in fertility, specifically, the likelihood that sperm deposited outside the vagina would fertilize an egg, causing a female to become pregnant. although dr. gabaeff obtained information from the internet on the quantity of sperm in related to fertilization of an egg or what the probability was of 18 sperm being ejaculated outside of the vagina, surviving in the open air, being transferred to the outside of the vagina, travelling from the vagina to the cervix, finding the small entrance to the fallopian tube, travelling to the end of the fallopian tube, then reaching the egg in a quantity that is sufficient to fertilize an egg. this case differs from brown in that dr. practical experience upon which to base his testimony and relie[d] entirely upon textual material for his opbrown, supra, 11 cal.3d at p. 643.) montes failed to show dr. knowledge, skill, experience, training, or education sufficient to qualify him as an expert on the subject to which his testimony ,  720, subd. (a); accord, howard entertainment, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at p. 1115.) similar to the criminologist in hogan who had never performed an analysis of blood splatter, dr. doctor practicing clinical forensics was subject upon which he [was] hogan, supra, 31 cal.3d at p. 852.) dr. gabaeff was not fertilize trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding the testimony. (sargon, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 773; accord, property california scjlw one corp. v. leamy, supra, 25 cal.app.5th at p. 1162.) b. substantial evidence supports the verdict montes contends there was not sufficient evidence to support the verdict in light of the evidence he was a caring father; he was willing to cooperate with the police; there was no evidence of any 19 sexual or physical eva consistently denied having sex with montes; and dr. fuller conceded it was tial evidence supports the verdict. 1. standard of review in evaluating the sufficiency of the evidence to support a any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime . . . beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could people v. penunuri (2018) 5 cal.5th 126, 142 (penunuri); accord, people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1212-1213.) e sufficient penunuri, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 142, quoting people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357; accord, people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, nce nor reevaluates a witnesss credibility. 20 2. and dr. become pregnant through masturbation or scratching her vagina. although montes, mendez, and eva all denied montes was ever alone with eva, surveillance records of the apartment showed montes was alone with a female child and a baby on at least one occasion, on september 8, 2016. mendez testified eva and her three school-age siblings left the after-school program at the same time, records showed only three of the children left the program at 6:00 p.m. further, eva testified she typically left the program with montes or her aunt between 4:00 and 4:30 p.m. although montes points out social worker mcdonald interviewed physical abuse, this was consistent with the fact eva came home with montes before her younger siblings. although montes and eva denied having sexual intercourse, both provided inconsistent and changing statements regarding relevant details. eva first told the hospital staff she did not know how she became pregnant. then she told her mother she became pregnant after touching herself (in what later was described as masturbation) with a white substance from clothing in the bedroom. when eva talked to officers calzadillas and munoz at the hospital, she initially stated she did not know how she became pregnant. only after scratching herself did she notice the white substance on her hand. eva also testified she did not know that semen causes a woman to become pregnant, even though she learned about sperm and semen from her seventh grade teacher. further, eva could not explain given her lack of 21 knowledge about how semen caused pregnancy why she told her mother and the police officers that she became pregnant by touching herself with the white sticky substance from clothing in was pregnant, but officer munoz testified montes did not appear to be in shock when he and officer calzadillas interviewed him shortly after he found out eva was pregnant; rather, montes was although eva testified the first person she told about the date night incident was her mother, mendez testified eva told her at the hospital she did not know how she became pregnant. it was only touched her vagina after getting the white substance on her hand. further, a reasonable juror could have what happened was not credible, given her description of walking into the bedroom while montes and mendez were asleep, tidying up for an unexplained reason to touch her vagina although she finally, montes and mendez provided inconsistent statements , because . . . she however, in april 2017 montes told social worker cortez he had sometimes ejaculated outside her vagina, but stated she was not purposefully avoiding becoming pregnant. mendez denied that inside her vagina. on appeal, we do not reweigh witness credibility. (penunuri, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 142; people v. lindberg, supra, 45 cal.4th at 22 p. ; montes lied about never being alone with eva; dr. pregnant through masturbation or scratching her vagina; and the inconsistent testimony of montes, mendez, and eva as to how eva became pregnant, there was substantial evidence to support the prosecution and presum[ing] in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from penunuri, at p. 142; accord, lindberg, at p. 27.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. feuer, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. stone, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 