filed 6/20/19 p. v. lopez-castillo ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. neftaly alejandro lopez-castillo, defendant and appellant. b290764 los angeles county super. ct. no. sa092641 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed. carlos ramirez, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction in this wende1 appeal, we affirm the judgment revoking probation and imposing sentence on defendant neftaly alejandro lopez-castillo (castillo). procedural background an information charged castillo with one count of second- degree burglary (pen. code,  459).2 the information further alleged he sustained two prior strikes ( 667, subd. (d), 1170.12, subd. (b)) and two prior prison term enhancements ( 667.5, subd. (b)). castillo pled no contest to second degree burglary. on april 20, 2016, the court suspended imposition of sentence and placed him on three years formal probation without supervision. the court imposed several probation conditions, including that he obey all laws. in the ensuing months, castillo committed several misdemeanor offenses, and on november 9, 2016, the case was called for a probation violation hearing. castillo waived his right to a formal hearing and admitted he violated probation by failing to obey all laws. the court found him in violation of probation, revoked probation, imposed an upper term of three years for the burglary, suspended execution of sentence, and placed him on supervised formal probation. on march 2, 2018, castillo was arrested for lewd conduct and ultimately found to be in possession of methamphetamine. on may 18, 2018, the court held a probation violation hearing, 1 people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436. 2 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 found him in violation of probation, and executed the previously suspended three-year sentence. castillo filed a timely notice of appeal, and we appointed counsel to represent him. on january 15, 2019, appellate counsel filed a brief raising no issues and asking us to review the record independently. (people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436.) castillo did not respond to our letter advising him of his right to file supplemental briefing. factual background on march 2, 2018, at approximately 7:20 p.m., castillo went into the blo blow dry bar hair salon in hollywood holding a small canister. he told an employee, leann eyerly, that he request to leave, and everly called security. castillo left the canister inside, exited the salon, and stood on the sidewalk outside the salon entrance. a security guard arrived and persuaded castillo to move across the street. after the security guard left, castillo returned to the front of the salon, pulled his penis out of his pants, and started fondling himself. police arrived soon after, arrested him, and obtained the canister from eyerly. a forensic investigator for the los angeles police department analyzed the contents of the container and determined it contained 7.54 grams of methamphetamine. castillo testified in his defense that he did not expose or fondle himself, and that his canister contained marijuana not methamphetamine. 4 discussion we have examined the entire record, and are satisfied no arguable issues exist in the appeal before us. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278; people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports currey, j. we concur: manella, p. j. collins, j. 