filed 3/26/19 p. v. franklin ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. leron amos franklin, defendant and appellant. b290909 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta143687) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, lynn d. olson, judge. appeal dismissed. james r. bostwick, jr., under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ______________ 2 leron amos franklin appeals from an order denying his motion to withdraw his no contest plea to assault with a semiautomatic firearm. franklin contends he should have been permitted to withdraw his negotiated plea because at the time he was suffering from posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd) and did not fully understand and appreciate his choices and decisions. appeal. factual and procedural background a. the felony complaint franklin was charged in a felony complaint with one count of assault with a semiautomatic firearm on antonio bens (pen. code,  245, subd. (b); count 1), with a special allegation he personally used a firearm to commit the offense ( 12022.5), and one count of assault by means of force likely to cause great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(4); count 2). as to both counts, the complaint specially alleged franklin had personally inflicted great bodily injury on bens ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). b. the incident according to the probapproached him, holding a gun. after they exchanged words, -left side of his face. bens fell to the ground. franklin continued in his car. bens was later treated for a broken jaw. 3 c. the plea and sentencing hearing on november 20, 2017, pursuant to a negotiated agreement, franklin pleaded no contest to one count of assault with a semiautomatic firearm. the people offered as part of the agreement that franklin would be sentenced to the lower term of three years and the remaining count and allegations would be dismissed. before franklin entered his plea, he was advised of his constitutional rights, including the right to a preliminary hearing, and the nature and consequences of the plea, which he stated he understood. the prosecutor repeatedly confirmed with franklin that he understood the terms of the plea agreement. rights and stipulated to a factual basis. the court expressly intelligent. the sentencing hearing was continued because franklin had been hospitalized following an accident. on march 2, 2018 the trial court sentenced franklin in accordance with the plea agreement to a three-year state prison term. the court awarded franklin four days presentence custody credits (two actual days plus two days conduct credit), set a restitution hearing date, and ordered franklin to pay statutory fines, fees and assessments. the court dismissed the remaining count and special allegations. d. motion to withdraw his plea on june 7, 2018 franklin, represented by counsel, moved to withdraw his plea, arguing there was good cause because at the time of the plea he was suffering from ptsd. franklin filed a declaration in support of his motion, exphave appearedoutwardly to the average personthat i was in a 4 franklin attached to the motion documents from the department of veterans affairs indicating franklin was receiving service-connected disability compensation and had been referred for . . . franklin also provided a character reference from a social worker. at the june 22, 2018 hearing, the trial court denied not freely, knowingly, voluntarily, and will full knowledge of the er, which was, based on the charges, a very the court concluded franklin had not shown by clear and convincing evidence good cause to withdraw his plea. franklin filed a timely notice of appeal. however, he did not obtain a certificate of probable cause. discussion we appointed counsel to represent franklin on appeal. after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief in which no issues were raised. on november 16, 2018 we advised franklin he had 30 days in which to submit any contentions or issues he wished us to consider. we have received no response. a defendant may move to set aside a guilty or no contest plea for good cause at any time before entry of judgment. (pen. code,  other factor overcoming the exercise of free judgment is good cause for withdrawal of a guilty plea under section 1018 . . . (people v. patterson (2017) 2 cal.5th 885, 894; accord, people v. johnson (2009) 47 cal.4th 668, 679.) a defendant must support his or her 5 claim with clear and convincing evidence. (patterson, at p. 894.) withdraw a plea for an abuse of discretion. (ibid.; people v. superior court (giron) (1974) 11 cal.3d 793, 796.) withdraw his no contest plea goes to the validity of the plea itself, the order is only appealable if franklin first obtains a certificate of probable cause under penal code section 1237.5. (people v. johnson, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. certificate of probable cause in order to appeal from the denial of a [section 1018] motion to withdraw a guilty plea, even though such a motion involves a proceeding that occurs after the guilty see pen. code,  1237, subd. (a) [providing for appeal only from final judgment of conviction, except as provided in  1237.5].) because franklin pleaded no contest and failed to obtain a certificate of probable cause, we dismiss his appeal. (johnson, at p. 676; see people v. panizzon (1996) 13 cal.4th 68, 89-90 [directing court of appeal to dismiss appeal from challenge to sentence entered after negotiated plea].) disposition the appeal is dismissed. feuer, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. segal, j. 