 filed 10/30/19 p. v. lopez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. manuel augustine lopez, defendant and appellant. b290988 los angeles county super. ct. no. va143254 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, raul a. sahagun, judge. affirmed. mark mcbride for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and rama r. maline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant manuel augustine lopez of the attempted murder of joshua v. and alondra b., shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, and possession of a firearm by a felon. the jury found firearm and gang allegations true.1 on appeal, lopez argues the verdict senate bill no. and we find no error and affirm his conviction. facts and procedural background2 1. in the early morning hours of october 16, 2016, alondra b. and joshua v. were sitting in their parked car next to mayberry park at the border of whittier and santa fe springs. a car pulled up next to them. the car approached from the opposite door alondra saw a driver and two passengers. . the driver asked his hands up. but the driver pointed a gun at them and then 1 the jury also found lopez guilty of possession of ammunition by a felon and possession of methamphetamine for sale. lopez does not challenge these convictions on appeal. 2 all of trial. on appeal, we of course consider the trialnot preliminary hearingtestimony in reviewing the record for substantial evidence. 3 more than five times. alondra ducked. she heard bullets hitting the car. alondra heard the car leave. she looked at joshua and saw paramedics arrived, put joshua in an ambulance, and took him to the hospital. joshua had been shot in the back of the head and the back. to he was in the hospital for about three weeks. joshua was not able to identify any perpetrators. he later that pulled up next to his. right 1:00 a.m. he saw two carsa dodge dart and a honda civicdriving fast westbound. real quick gunshots in rapid succession . the cars then drove eastbound. soto got a look at the driver of the dodge dart. when later shown a photo six-pack by detectives, soto selected photographs of two men who were not lopez. at the preliminary hearing and trial, however, soto testified the man there in courtlopezwas the man he saw driving the dodge dart. he had no doubt that the man he identified in court was the driver of the dodge dart. officers and forensic technicians who arrived at the scene found 4 in the street. two of the shell casings were .40 caliber and the other eight were .45 caliber. on october 26, 2016, detectives showed alondra a photo six-shot she also considered the man in position 5. alondra ultimately selected waman in position 5. she also identified lopez in court at the preliminary hearing and trial. alondra testified she was eight days after the shooting, detectivesarmed with a warrantfollowed lopez as he drove a dodge dart away from a residence in la mirada. they stopped him and arrested him. a later examination of the dart at a tow yard revealed three bullet holes. a technician found gunshot residue on the interior the dart. a mile from mayberry park between 12:55 and 1:10 a.m. on october 16, 2016. authorities obtained a surveillance video from a nearby business. the prosecutor played the video for the jury. we have watched it. the black-and-white, soundless video shows a parking lot outside a small building with a door. two cars and a truck are parked in the lot. beyond the right side of the truck, in the distance, a car approaches from the top left of the screen. it pulls forward, then backs up, then stops. the headlights remain on. several seconds later, a car approaches from the upper right side of the screen. the parties agree this was a dodge dart. 5 be seen in the video. the dart stops right next to several small white spots can be seen. in the meantime, another car arrives from the right top of the screen and stops next to the dart. white flashes can be seen. the dart drives away, then the second car to arrive drives away. the quality of the video is poor. it is difficult to make out what is happening. the large white numerals of the time code in the upper righthand corner obscure some of the scene. neither joshua nor alondra remembered seeing the second car that pulled up. joshusee the second car because the first car was blocking it. lopez is a varrio la mirada gang member with the 2. the charges, verdict, and sentence the people charged lopez with two counts of attempted willful, deliberate, premeditated murder (counts 1 and 2), shooting at an occupied motor vehicle (count 3), possession of a firearm and ammunition by a felon (counts 4 and 5), and possession of methamphetamine for sale (count 6). the people alleged lopez personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury to joshua under penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (d)3 (counts 1, 2, and 3), and that he committed the crimes for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang under section 186.22, subdivisions (b)(1)(a) (counts 1, 2, 4, and 5) and (b)(4) (counts 1, 2, and 3).4 3 statutory references are to the penal code. 4 lopez states in his brief that the jury found true sentencing 6 the jury convicted lopez on all six counts and found all of the allegations true. the trial court sentenced lopez to two indeterminate terms of life in prison as well as a determinate term of five years. the court imposed consecutive 40 years to life sentences on the attempted murder counts (a minimum parole eligibility date of 15 years under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4), plus 25 to life for the discharge of the firearm causing great bodily injury to joshua). on count 3 the court sentenced lopez to the midterm of five years plus 15 years for the gang allegation and 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement; the court stayed that sentence under section 654. on count 4, the court imposed the midterm of two years plus the midterm of three years on the gang allegation. on counts 5 and 6, respectively, the court sentenced lopez to the midterm of two years plus three years for the gang allegation, and the midterm of two years, concurrent with count 4. discussion 1. is meritless lopez contends a memory void in which detectives inserted their own version of to prove that [he] actthe the section 186.11, subdivision (a)(2) has to do not with gang crimes but with fraud or embezzlement resulting in a financial loss to the victim. ( 186.11, subd. (a)(1), (2).) 7 it is not clear at all. as we have said, the video is of poor quality. small white spots can be seen, but they are unclear because the viewer is looking through the toward the perpetrators car. when the second car pulls up, brighter white flashes can be seen; they are more visible because there is no obstruction between them and the viewer. in short, the video is entirely consistent pointed a gun at them, and fired repeatedly. that the second car also arrived and started shooting does not change this fact. alondra testified she saw lopez fire the first shot, then she ducked. - id not see anything other than possibly a shadow when she looked up at lopez also argues the eyewitness identification of lopez at trial after detectives showed the witnesses photo six-packs again, the evidence is to the contrary. joshua was unable to choose any photo in the six-pack. soto chose two photographs that were not lopez but he recognized lopez when he saw him in person in court. alondra considered the reasons for her decision. she also recognized lopez when she saw him in court. the detective who showed the six-packs 8 to the witnesses testified he gives witnesses as much time as they need to look at photographs in a six-pack. wwere unreliable as a result of the investigation process that 2. determination that lopez fired at the victims with the intent to kill them lopez next argues [t]he evidence was insufficient to support the convictions because the prosecution failed to this is a variation on first argument: ] shots at she saw . . . lopez raise a gun and shoot at her in lopez misunderstands the substantial evidence rule and our task on review. on a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence, we view the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier ibid.) when a factual determination is attacked on the ground that there is no substantial evidence to sustain it, the power of an appellate court begins and ends with the determination as to whether, on the entire record, there is substantial evidence, contradicted or bowers v. bernards (1984) 150 cal.app.3d 870, 873-of the record shows that there is substantial evidence to support the judgment, we must affirm, even if there is also substantial 9 evidence to support a contrary conclusion and the [trier of fact] might have reached a different result if it had believed other evidence. [citation.] accordingly, if the evidence is such that rational people could reach conflicting conclusions, there is by (people v. riley (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 1152, 1165-1166.) alondra testified lopez fired a number of shots into the car where she and joshua sat. joshua was hit by three bullets. is well settled that intent to kill or express malice, the mental state required to convict a defendant of attempted acts and the circumstances of the crime. (see people v. lee (1987) 43 cal.3d 666, 679 . . . .) of a actions. (people v. lashley [(1991)] 1 cal.app.4th [938,] 946 . . . .) the act of firing toward a victim at a close, but not point blank, range in a manner that could have inflicted a mortal wound had the bullet been on target is sufficient to support an inference of intent to kill . . . . (id. at p. people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 741.) the jury was entitled to conclude that, when lopez fired his gun repeatedly at the victims sitting, at most, only several feet from him, he intended to kill them. 3. lopez was not tried as an aider and abettor; in any event, senate bill no. 1437 does not apply to attempted murder lopez bases his third argument on the same erroneous contention that only a person or persons in the second car shot at the victims. from that incorrect premise, lopez seems to argue there was insufficient evidence that he aided and abetted the dodge did not 10 the prosecution always contended lopez drove the dodge dart, pulled up to a number of shots, striking joshua. the prosecutor spoke about the second car as well. the prosecutor told the jury the out of . . . shot. the after that, the prosecutor noted, lopez drove off while the second car was still shooting. court to instruct on aiding and abetting nor did the court do so. in his closing, defense counsel argued all the shots came from the second car. the jury had the video and jurors were free to decide testimony and the gunshot residue testimony as well. there is nothing to indicate the jurors did not convict lopez based on their conclusion of the dodge dart and therefore was a direct perpetrator of the crimes. lopez also contends we must reverse his conviction in light of senate bill no. 1437 (sb 1437). there are three problems with this argument. first, as we have said, the jury did not convict lopez as an aider and abettor, much less under the natural and probable consequences doctrine. second, sb 1437 applies to murder but not attempted murder. third, sb 1437 is not retroactive: a defendant seeking relief must petition the trial court to vacate his conviction and resentence him. 11 lopez ignores the plain language of sb 1437. newly-added subdivision (e) of section 189 provides a participant in an death occurs is liable for murderonly if certain proof is presented. ( 189, subd. (e), italics added.) to establish he is entitled to relief, a petitioner must show he was charged with murder, convicted of first or second degree murder, and could not have been convicted of first or second degree murder due to changes sb 1437 made to sections 188 or 189. ( 1170.95, subd. (a).) our colleagues in division seven recently held sb 1437 does not apply to attempted murder. (people v. lopez (2019) 38 cal.app.5th 1087.) we agreed, and reached the same conclusion in a case filed shortly after lopez. (people v. munoz (2019) 39 cal.app.5th 738 (munoz).) finally, the legislature limited retroactive application of sb 1437. a defendant may seek sb 1437 relief, but he must do so via the procedural avenue provided by the legislation. (people v. martinez (2019) 31 cal.app.5th 719, 727-729; munoz, supra, 39 cal.app.5th at pp. 751-753.) again, however, lopez cannot file a petition under sb 1437 in any event, because the jury convicted him of attempted murder, not murder. 12 disposition we affirm manuel augustine not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. hanasono, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 