 filed 6/26/19 p. v. young ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. barrick young, defendant and appellant. b291756 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya097437) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, hector m. guzman, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. robert f. somers, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, kenneth c. byrne and nicholas j. webster, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 introduction defendant and appellant barrick young was convicted of first degree burglary. he was sentenced to eight years for the burglary, plus 10 years for two prior serious felony convictions. after young was convicted, the legislature enacted penal code section 1001.36,1 which created a pretrial diversion case was pending on appeal, the legislature also enacted amendments to sections 1385 and 667, subdivision (a), which gave trial courts discretion to dismiss sentencing enhancements for prior serious felony convictions. at the trial diversion for mental health treatment was not available, and trial courts had no authority to strike five-year enhancements for serious felony convictions. we reject young that section 1001.36 applies retroactively to his case but we agree sections 1385 and 667, subdivision (a) retroactively apply. accordingly, we affirm his conviction but we remand with directions to the trial court to conduct a sentencing hearing at which it shall consider whether to strike either or both prior serious felony enhancements. factual and procedural background on december 27, 2017 at approximately 12:15 a.m., los dispatched to a residence to investigate a report of a prowler on private property. after he arrived, zavala approached the detached garage and observed that the area around the door lock was broken and the door frame was cracked. zavala also observed a shoe print on the door. zavala entered the garage and 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 saw young going through some boxes. after zavala ordered young to show his hands, young took a glass pipe out of his front shirt pocket, placed it on a box in front of him, and then put up his hands. young also had batteries, a lighter, and a charger in his other hand. according to victim walter white, neatly stored items in his garage had been strewn about the area by young. white was the only person with access to the garage, and he did not give young permission to enter. white testified the lighter, batteries, and charger did not belong to him. young testified he had been homeless for five months and, in the days leading up to december 27, he had been up for several days smoking methamphetamine. young stated he entered the garage not to steal anything, but to sleep. he testified the items in the garage were strewn about because he was trying to hide his methamphetamine pipe. the batteries, charger, and lighter belonged to him. young testified he sometimes heard voices, for which he was taking medication. on may 16, 2018, after a bench trial, young was convicted of one count of first degree burglary. ( 459.) the court also found young suffered two prior serious felony convictions ( 667, subd. (a)(1)) and two strikes under the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). the court also found young served five prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). sentencing was conducted on july 25, 2018. the court romero2 motion as to one of the two strike priors. the court sentenced young to an aggregate term of 18 years in prison, consisting of the middle term of four years for the 2 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 4 burglary, doubled due to the prior strike, plus two five-year enhancements for two prior serious felony convictions. the court struck the five one-year prior prison terms. young timely appealed. discussion i. mental health diversion is not retroactive section 1001.36 authorizes pretrial diversion for defendants with qualifying mental disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and posttraumatic stress disorder. means the postponement of prosecution, either temporarily or permanently, at any point in the judicial process from the point at which the accused is charged until adjudication, to allow the ( 1001.36, subd. (c).) a trial court may grant pretrial diversion under section 1001.36 if the court finds: (1) defendant suffers from a qualifying mental disorder; (2) the mental disorder played a significant role in the commission of the charged offense; (3) a qualified mental health expert must opine that s symptoms will respond to treatment; (4) defendant consents to diversion and waives his or her speedy trial rights; (5) defendant agrees to comply with the treatment as a condition of diversion; and (6) defendant will not pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety, as defined in section 1170.18, if he is treated in the community. ( 1001.36, subds. (b)(1)(a)(f).) pretrial diversion is not available to defendants charged with murder, voluntary manslaughter, certain enumerated sex offenses, and certain offenses involving the use of weapons of mass destruction. ( 1001.36, subds. (b)(2)(a)(h).) 5 if the trial court grants pretrial diversion and the defendant performs period of diversion, the cos criminal charges that were the subject of the criminal ( 1001.36, subd. (e).) here, the record reflects young has a history of mental health issues, including episodes of auditory hallucinations. young testified he took medication to treat the auditory hallucinations and the probation report submitted to the court reflects young previously received mental health treatment from the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. additionally, young was not charged with any of the disqualifying offenses described above. young contends he should be considered for mental health diversion under section 1001.36 because his case is not yet final on appeal. he relies on the reasoning in people v. frahs (2018) 27 cal.app.5th 784 (frahs), which held that section 1001.36 applies retroactively. more recently, the court in people v. craine (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 744 (craine), rejected the reasoning in frahs and held section 1001.36 does not apply retroactively to a defendant who has been tried and sentenced. our supreme court has granted review of frahs, and will have the final say on the matter. (people v. frahs, review granted dec. 27, 2018, s252220.) except for expressing our agreement with the craine will follow craine 6 ii. discretionary dismissal of the five-year enhancements is retroactive while this case was pending on appeal, the legislature enacted amendments to sections 1385 and 667, subdivision (a) giving trial courts discretion to dismiss punishment for prior serious felony convictions. the amendments, which became operative on january 1, 2019, are retroactive to cases not yet final on appeal. (people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 972.) a remand is required in such cases unless the record shows it would not have exercised its discretion to lessen the sentence at the time of sentencing. (people v. johnson (2019) 32 cal.app.5th 26, 69.) the people acknowledge the amendments are retroactive to contend the case should not be remanded because struck the prior felony enhancements even if it had the discretion at the court did not exercise its discretion to impose the low term on the strikes. the people case. we are not convinced. , the people quote a small portion of a fuller statement that, in proper context, reveals the court was sympathetic to young. the court began its the life term. he has a number of serious offenses in the past, then explained that although some might be surprised the court 7 only imposed a determinate 18-mr. en because i honestly do feel he is trying, but he always seems to put ant time . . . [] . . . the other reasons why i showed mercy, is that to be getting himself in any serious trouble, but he always seems to be somewhat on the edge of falling off and back int was involved in some serious and violent offenses. the court spect for the court, and desire to change. in other words, the court made clear that while on paper s criminal history could justify a more severe sentence, the court believed mercy and leniency were warranted based on a closer analysis of mr. yhis more positive attributes. we therefore cannot definitively conclude the court would not have fashioned a more lenient sentence, or perhaps have structured the sentence in a different way to maximize parole consideration, if it had had the discretion to do so. in any event, it is undisputed that the court had no and was compelled to impose two five-year enhancements for two prior serious felony convictions. neither did the people nor have an opportunity to present arguments related to the amended provisions. accordingly, mr. young and his counsel did full and fair opportunity to marshal and present the 8 evidence supporting a favorable exercise of discretion. (people v. rocha (2019) 32 cal.app.5th 352, 358, citing people v. rodriguez (1996) 17 cal.4th 253, 258.) thus, we will remand the case for the trial court to conduct a new sentencing hearing to determine whether to exercise prior felony enhancements. disposition the case is remanded for the trial court to conduct a new sentencing hearing to consider whether to exercise its newly authorized discretion under amended sections 1385 and 667, subdivision (a), to dismiss the prior serious felony enhancements. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p. j. i concur: grimes, j. 1 people v. young b291756 stratton, j., concurring in part and dissenting in part: i dis1001.36 does not apply retroactively. i would adopt the view of people v. frahs (2018) 27 cal.app.5th 784, review granted, people v. frahs (december 27, 2018, s252220) and hold that section 1001.36 applies retroactively to all judgments not yet final on appeal. stratton, j. 