filed 8/30/19 p. v. arreguin ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. martin arreguin, defendant and appellant. b291184 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba446085) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, david herriford, judge. affirmed as modified. deborah l. hawkins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, david e. madeo and yun k. lee, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant martin arreguin appeals from the judgment after a jury convicted him of seven counts arising from the sexual abuse of his niece r.s., a minor. at trial, the prosecution introduced into evidence a report prepared by a nurse who conducted a forensic medical examination of r.s., referred to by the parties as a sart (sexual assault response team) examination. (see people v. uribe (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 1457, 1463.) the nurse did not testify at trial; instead, the prosecution called a nurse practitioner who worked in the same rape treatment center as the examining nurse and had reviewed the sart report as well as the photographs and video taken during the examination. in her testimony, the nurse practitioner explained the contents of the sart report and offered her own observations and opinions based on her review of the report and the photos and video. on appeal, arreguin contends that admission of the sart constitutional right to confront the witnesses against him. arreguin forfeited this challenge by not objecting on this basis below. moreover, any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt; even in the absence of the report, the jury would have heard, and did hear, the key incriminating findings through the admissible testimony of the nurse practitioner, and arreguin fails to show any other prejudice from the admission of the report or his inability to cross-examine its author. the parties agree that arreguin is entitled to three additional days of presentence credit, and we modify the judgment to credit those days. we otherwise affirm. 3 procedure an information filed may 19, 2016 charged arreguin with two counts of sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger (pen. code,1  288.7, subd. (a)), three counts of committing a forcible lewd act upon a child under the age of 14 ( 288, subd. (b)(1)), one count of oral copulation or sexual penetration with a child 10 years old or younger ( 288.7, subd. (b)), and one count of sexual penetration by a foreign object of a victim under the age of 14 ( 289, subd. (a)(1)(b)). the trial court declarebecause the prosecution had not disclosed certain dna evidence until opening statements. the trial court declared a mistrial in deadlocked. after a third trial, the jury found arreguin guilty of all counts. the trial court sentenced arreguin to a determinate term of 34 years and a consecutive indeterminate term of 25 years to life, for a total of 59 years to life. the trial court also imposed fines and fees and awarded credits. arreguin timely appealed from the judgment following the third trial. 1 further unspecified statutory citations are to the penal code. 4 facts we limit our summary to evidence from the third trial relevant to the issues on appeal. a. prosecution evidence 1. in march 2015, nine-year-old r.s. lived in an apartment with her mother, her 18-year-old brother, her 21-year-old sister arreguin lived in the on march 13, 2015, v.c. was looking after r.s. while their mother was out of town. that eveningapartment, where r.s. sometimes went to play. was locked, whic v.c. car parked nearby. v.c. looked around the apartment building but could not knocked loudly while calling out for arreguin and her aunt. when again no one answered, v.c. went back upstairs to look for r.s. in her apartment. having not found r.s., v.c. went back downstairs and saw apartment. v.c. asked where they had been. arreguin and r.s. answered simultaneously but each gave a different answer; r.s. said they had been playing tag in back, while arreguin said they had been watching movies. 5 ll the way. v.c. and r.s. returned to their apartment and v.c. asked what had happened. at called the police. 2. - the trial court declared r.s. unavailable under evidence code section 240, subdivision (a)(5).2 in place of live testimony, the pro 17, 2015 interview with a ,3 testimony from the preliminary hearing on august 11, 2015, and october 11, 2016. 2 evidence code section 240, subdivision (a)(5) provides bsent from the hearing and the proponent of his or her statement has exercised reasonable diligence but has been unable to procure his or her s process 3 the forensic interviewer testified at trial, and the prosecution presented the forensic interview during her testimony. 6 a. r.s. told the forensic interviewer that arreguin first sexually abused her towards the end of her second grade year. he called her apartment and told her he had a surprise for her. when she went to his apartment, he took her into the bedroom, pulled down her pants, and pushed her onto the bed. arreguin kissed her, and tried to put his penis in her vagina, but r.s. tensed up and arreguin was unable to do so. arreguin then took er. arreguin told her if she told anyone what had happened, he would do something bad to her, and he sent her home. he told her he was going to take her out to eat. arreguin told her to go to the bedroom, where he began kissing her and trying to put his tongue in her mouth. he again unsuccessfully attempted to put his penis in her vagina, which hurt r.s. arreguin cleaned up and took r.s. out to eat. describing the incident on march 13, 2015, r.s. said arreguin told her he had a surprise for her, and she went into his apartment. arreguin took r.s. into the dining room and tried to kiss her. he showed her another nasty movie on his computer. then arreguin took r.s. into the bathroom and told her to lie on the floor. arreguin tried to put his penis in her vagina but it only went in her to go watch cartoons. 7 r.s. said the incidents of abuse had happened in every she described s living room in which he kissed her and attempted to put his penis in her vagina. she described an incident in the dining room in which arreguin watched a pornographic movie with her, then tried to duplicate the acts in the movie, including attempting to put his penis in her vagina and her anus while she lay on the table. r.s. said arreguin had put his mouth on her exposed chest and vagina. r.s. said arreguin often made her hold his penis in her hand, threatening to do something bad to her if she did not. b. on his computer of people having sex. she described him kissing her on her chest and between her legs, and making her kiss him on the mouth. she described the zippered shorts he wore, which she testified that he attempted unsuccessfully on more than one occasion to put his penis in her vagina, which hurt her. she said the first time he did this she was in the second grade. his penis. on one occasion he tried to put his penis in her anus. he also sometimes put his finger in her vagina. he put his mouth on her vagina on more than one occasion. r.s. described the march 13, 2015 incident, stating that arreguin attempted to put his penis in her vagina, first in his bedroom and then in the bathroom. c. r.s. testified that arreguin made her watch videos [l]ike people 8 she described the march 13, 2015 incident, saying arreguin kissed her and tried to put his penis in her vagina, which he also did on other occasions. she described his zippered shorts, and white liquid coming out of his penis. she said arreguin once told her to put his penis in her mouth, but she refused. arreguin put his finger in her vagina more than once. 3. on march 13, 2015, nurse kari ross examined r.s. at the santa monica rape treatment center (rape treatment center). ross documented her findings on a calema 2-930 form entitled the on page two of the report, ross wrote that r.s reported multiple incidents of sexual abuse by arreguin in his apartment over several years. r.s. told ross she was at the rape treatment to lay on the bathroom floor [and] took [off] my pants [and he] my cheek when saying this. r.s. also reported her uncle forcing her something [sic 9 page three of the report contained multiple checkboxes to (capitalization omitted). ross checked the boxes for genitals . . . (some capitalization omitted.) ross checked the boxes indicating that arreguomitted.) ross also checked boxes indicating arreguin had contact or penetrreported stomach pain for the past three months. on pages four through seven, ross documented the results of her physical examination of r.s. page six contained a pre-printed diagram of female genitalia on which ross indicated the location of five abrasions or bruises. on page seven, ross indicated no findings from an anal and rectal examination. ome anal-genital exam,c ]-prob healed the swab samples she took from r.s. and indicated that she camera. ross signed the report, as did the police officer who received the evidence from her. 10 4. ensic medical examination at trial, the prosecution called as a witness sally wilson, a nurse practitioner and clinical coordinator at the rape treatment center. in addition to performing medical forensic examinations on patients reporting sexual abuse or duties as coordinator included reviewing the written and video documentation of forensic examinations performed by other nurses. wilson was the custodian of records for the rape treatment center. wilson testified that she did not perform the exam on r.s., days of when it was prepared, and had reviewed the photographs and video taken of the exam before coming to testify in court. wilson explained what a forensic examination of a prepubescent child entails, noting that the examiner would use different techniques than he or she would with an adult. the prosecution asked if those different techniques were used when ross examined r.s., and wilson said yes. defense counsel objected on the basis of hearsay and lack of foundation. the trial court confirmed with wilson that her testimony was based he objection. wilson testified that ross documented in her report that bruises around her genital area . . . and s cident wilson stated that in preparation for her testimony she reviewed the video 11 wilson referred caused by blunt force trauma. findings regarding the locations of the multiple acute injuries. wilson testified that r.s. returned to the rape treatment center for a follow-up visit. wilson did not examine r.s. during that visit but reviewed the documentation from it. wilson stated that at the follow-the healed injury to the hymen remained. wilson testified the healed injury likely would not change in appearance until r.s. reached puberty. video[ regard would object to counsel displaying these records to the jury, because they will not be able to see the writing of the notes that was made by the actual nurse practitioner who did the testify anruled that the prosecution had laid the foundation for the report witness actually reviewed portions of the exam. so the objection is o the prosecution displayed to the jury the genital diagram from page six wilson explained that each injury was noted on the diagram using a numbering system. wilson testified that ross in her report had documented and why she was at the rape treatment center. the prosecution 12 asked wilson what, according to the report, r.s. had said. court overruled. wilson testified that r.s. had reported her uncle oral copulat4 sexual acts occurring over several years, and that she complained of pain in her genital area and said she had been having stomach pain for about three months. wilson described the procedures for collecting physical evidence during a forensic exam, and explained what swabs were taken from r.s. and how they were given to the police. n which would be painful for the child. videographic evidence and find that the injuries that you now discussed here in court are consistent with what the patient reported which was the penile-vaginal penetration and penetration of her vagina with a finger consistent with penetration with a finger as well. 4 that the reported oral 13 wilson testified that r.s. did not report to ross that her uncle had touched her anal area or buttocks. on cross-examination, wilson testified that it was unlikely the area was protected by the outer layers of the genitals. asked d by something other than that would have caused it. what i can tell you is it would have to tissue to cause it enough 5. other physical evidence b. defense evidence arreguin did not testify at trial. he called as an expert a en suggestibility and forensic in discussion i. arreguin forfeited his confrontation clause challenge, and any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt into evidence without her testifying as a witness violated his right under the sixth amendment of the united states constitution to confront the witnesses against him. we review constitutional challenges to the admission of evidence de novo. (people v. mayo (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 535, 553.) 14 the confrontation clause of the sixth amendment provides right . . . to be confronted with the (u.s. const., 6th amend.) the confrontation clause prohibits defendant . . . unless (1) the declarant is unavailable to testify and (2) the defendant had a previous opportunity to cross-examine the witness or forfeited the right by his own people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 680 (sanchez), citing crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 62, 68 (crawford).) hearsay, as is well known, is an out-of-court statement sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 680.) as for what constitutes various formulations . . . but has yet to provide a definition of (id. at p. 687.) because, as discussed post, we resolve this appeal on the basis of forfeiture and harmless error, we may assume for hearsay without settling on a definition. a. arreguin forfeited his confrontation clause challenge by not objecting on that basis in the trial court did not preserve the issue for appeal. (people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 730lack of foundation were insufficient to preserve a separate confrontation clause challenge, which presents different legal 15 issues. (id. at p. 731, fn. 19; people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1217 [crawford confrontation clause different legal standards than . . . b. harmless beyond a reasonable doubt even had arreguin preserved his challenge, we would not reverse his convictiopeople v. perez (2018) 4 cal.5th 421, 456 (perez) [applying harmless error analysis to crawford confrontation clause challenge], citing chapman v. california cumulative of other properly admitted evidence or were not ct. concluded were consistent with the sexual abuse r.s. reported to report, however, but also from wilwilson stated her own observations and conclusions based on her review examination. as made clear by our supreme court in people v. garton (2018) 4 cal.5th 485 (garton), those observations and conclusions did not implicate the confrontation clause. garton concerned the testimony of dr. susan comfort, a coroner, at a murder trial. (garton, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 504.) performed by her retired predecessor, dr. harold harrison. 16 (ibid.) comfort testified that in forming her opinions she relied on the autopsy report and associated diagrams, as well as ballistics report produced by an employee of the california ibid.) the autopsy report itself was not introduced into evidence. (ibid.) testified on the trajectories of the bullets that injured [the victim] and her fetus, observed that the fetus was approximately eight and a half months old and would have been viable, and concluded that gunshot wounds caused death.garton, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 504.) comfort further testified that the victim would have died within 20 or 30 minutes after being shot. (ibid.) on appeal, the defendant claimed that olated the confrontation clause by -of-court statements from the autopsy report to id. at p. 505.) -court statements and opinions premised explicitly on photographs and x-rays from the autopsy . . . ; (2) recitations of statements made by harrison in the autopsy report and photographs, but not identifying specific facts from garton, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 505.) as an example of the third category of testimony, the death was multiple gunshot wounds; she explained that she reached this opinprepared by dr. harrison and also the photographs that were ibid.) 17 the supreme court held that the first category of testimony did not implicate the confrontation clause, because garton, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. photographs, and competent testimony based on such photographs, does not violate ibid.) the court held that the second category of testimony, in which comfort recited facts from the autopsy report of which she had no personal knowledge, did constitute hearsay. (garton, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 506; see sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 684 [-specific out-of-court statements to explain the bases for his opinion, those statements are necessarily considered by the jury for their truth, thus rendering them hearsay.) the court did not decide whether the hearsay was testimonial under crawford, instead concluding that its admission was harmless, given its relative brevity and the fact died were not disputed at trial.garton, at p. 507.) as for the third category of testimony, in which comfort forming an opinion and may tell the jury in general terms that garton, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 506, citing sanchez, supraif comfort had related as true a statement by harrison, then she would have communicated hearsay. but this category of comtestimony did not directly convey any statements by harrison, nor in context did her testimony implicitly do so. comfort 18 he photographs, and that based on [her] review of all those documents, she reach[ed] the as harrison. in light of her entire testimony, it is clear that comfort was exercising her own independent judgment to arrive at her conclusions. only conveyed to the jury in general terms that comfort relied on the autopsy report and did not communicate hearsay to the jury.(garton, at pp. 506507.) like the testifying coroner in garton, wilson, in addition to conveying specific statements fstated her own opinions and observations based on her review of she herself reviewed the video record and concurred that r.s. had a healed laceration on her hymen, wilson answered in the affirmative. she then offered her own opinion, not present in penetrating injury, that it would have been painful, and that it was unlikely to have occurred accidentally. she also concurred records and the video[ the penile-vaginal penetration and penetration of her vagina with as in gartonit is clear that [wilson] was exercising her own independent judgment to arrive at her conclusions(garton, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 507.) 19 testimony from wilson, based on her review of photos, video, and consistent with penetration by a penis or finger. under garton, that testimony did not implicate the confrontation clause. the jury would have heard the testimony even if the trial court had its specific contents. the report itself added no significant information regarding the injuries that the jury did not properly hear from wilson. therefore, to the extent the trial court erred in harmless. aside from the findings of physical injury, arreguin does contends was prejudicial, nor from our own review have we identified any. the only other incriminating evidence of reported by r.s. arreguin does not contend that admission of this information was prejudicial. nor could he, because the greater impact the opportunity to question her findings. this is necessarily the case whenever an expert testifies in reliance on a report or information provided by a non-testifying witness, yet our supreme court repeatedly has upheld such expert testimony against confrontation clause challenges. (see sanchez, supra, 20 63 cal.4th at p. 685; perez, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 457; garton, suprasignificant information that the jury did not otherwise hear from wilson or other sources that arreguin did have the opportunity to cross-examine. thus, his inability to cross-examine ross directly did not prejudice him. -hand knowledge, namely if or when ross spoke with police officers during the whether r.s. reported to ross that arreguin ejaculated or touched her anal area. arreguin does not explain, nor do we discern, how his inability to question ross on these topics prejudiced him. e reason that kari ross impacted her credibility. this is mere speculation, especially record indicating his counsel did so. moreover, any challenge to had little impact on the verdict independent review of the evidence, that r.s. suffered injuries to her genitals consistent with sexual penetration. our conclusion that admission of the report was harmless, and that the jury would have convicted arreguin even had the na consistent 21 occasions that arreguin repeatedly sexually abused her.5 given ii. arreguin is entitled to three additional days of presentence custody credits arreguin was in presentence custody for 1,208 days, having been arrested on march 13, 2015 and sentenced on july 2, 2018. at sentencing, however, the trial court awarded arreguin only 1,206 days of actual custody credit, plus 15 percent of that amount, or 180 days, in conduct credit. we presume the award of conduct credit was pursuant to section 2933.1, subdivision (c), earned . . . shall not exceed 15 percent of the actual period of 5 in his appellate briefing, arreguin purports to list examples of inconsistent statements by r.s., including whether aapartment certain incidents of abuse took place, whether on particular occasions arreguin ejaculated, and how often arreguin attempted to anally penetrate her. regardless of whether r.s. consistently conveyed the details of each incident, she consistently conveyed the core information that arreguin repeatedly sexually abused her in his apartment, and consistently described the same types of acts constituting that abuse. 22 the parties agree arreguin is entitled to two additional days of actual custody credit, which in turn increases his conduct credit by one day, for a total of three additional days of presentence credit. we modify the judgment accordingly. disposition the judgment is modified by awarding two additional days of actual custody credit, for a total of 1,208 days, and one additional day of conduct credit, for a total of 181 days, thus increasing the total award of presentence credit to 1,389 days. the judgment is otherwise affirmed. the trial court shall forward the modified abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. 