filed 6/27/19 p. v. bethell ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. datwan troy bethell, defendant and appellant. b291447 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba432818) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen kennedy, judge. affirmed with directions. benjamin owens, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and corey j. robins, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________ 2 datwan troy bethell appeals1 from the judgment entered following his conviction by jury on two counts of second degree robbery (pen. code,2  211; counts 3 & 4) with personal firearm use ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), and one count of battery ( 242; count 5).3 bethell claims on appeal that the trial court abused its discretion during resentencing by imposing consecutive robbery sentences and refusing to strike the firearm enhancements because of the trial court we had kidnapping for robbery convictions out of disrespect for the victims because they were marijuana dispensary employees. we reject claim. we conclude bethell has not demonstrated the statements regarding our prior opinion had any impact on the choices. we reject the claim that the abstract of judgment must be corrected to for the battery; the abstract of judgment reflects that sentence. we affirm the judgment; 1 reversed for insufficiency of the evidence his two kidnapping to rob convictions (pen. code,  209, subd. (b)(1); counts 1 & 2) but otherwise affirmed. (people v. bethell (aug. 3, 2017, b269854) [nonpub. opn.] pp. 1-2, 9, 14-15 (bethell i).) we take judicial notice of the record in that case. (evid. code,  452, subd. (d)(1), 459, subd. (a).) 2 unless otherwise indicated, subsequent section references are to the penal code. 3 the battery was a lesser included offense of sexual battery by restraint ( 243.4, subd. (a)); the jury acquitted bethell of the latter charge. (bethell i, supra, b269854, at pp. 2, 9.) 3 however, we direct the trial court to correct the abstract of judgment so that it does not reflect included . background4 in december 2014, bethell entered a marijuana dispensary at sunset and hollywood boulevards. he lacked money to buy marijuana so he left, saying he would return. around closing time, alexander voit, a dispensary security guard, and miranda g.,5 an employee, were in the dispensary. bethell and an accomplice entered the dispensary and robbed voit and miranda g. (counts 3 & 4) of merchandise, money, and personal property. bethell also battered miranda g. (count 5). bethell presented alibi defense evidence. (bethell i, supra, b269854, at pp. 2-5, 8.) discussion i. the trial court did not abuse its discretion when resentencing bethell a. factual background 1. the 2016 sentencing hearing january 22, 2016 sentencing hearing, the trial court imposed prison terms of life with the possibility of 4 a detailed recitation of the facts of the offenses may be found in bethell i, supra, b269854, at pages 3 to 8, but is appeal. 5 as in bethell iuse her first name and last initial only. 4 parole for the two aggravated kidnapping convictions, plus 10 years for the firearm enhancements. the court ordered that bethell serve the sentences consecutively. as to the two robbery counts, the trial court stated: going to impose . . . a concurrent sentence on counts [3] and [4] with the sentence that i imposed on counts [1] and [2]court added: [3], the court is going to select the midterm of three years . . . plus the ten years for the enhancement. and then on count [4], the one-third the midterm and one-third of the enhancement [i.e., a total of four years four months on count 4] and run all of that concurrent to the two . . . consecutive life with the possibility of parole terms that i imposed in counts [1] and [2]the court imposed a consecutive six months for [the] battery. 2. bethell i and the modification order bethell appealed, and we counts 1 and 2 for insufficiency of the evidence; we affirmed the remaining convictions. (bethell i, supra, b269854, at pp. 2, 14-15.) we explained: within the dispensary, was incidental to the purpose of the robbery, and did not (id. at p. 14.) nonetheless, we emphasized: we do not minimize the suffering of either victim during (and following) the robbery, ibid.) with respect to sentencing, we statedcounts, the court sentenced [bethell] to concurrent sentences of 13 years (miranda) and 52 months (voit), which also were to run 5 (bethell i, supra, b269854, at p. 9, italics added.) in footnote 4, we observed: dthe people point[ ] out, both incorrectly state that the sentences on the two robbery counts are to run consecutively. the oral pronouncement that the sentences are concurrent controls, and court has the inherent power to correct such clerical error on appeal, whether on our own motion or upon application of the partiid. at pp. 9-10.) our disposition then stated: the trial court shall amend the abstract of judgment to reflect that the sentences on counts 3 and 4 are concurrent, and shall forward the amended abstract of judgment to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the id. at p. 15, italics added.) on august 23, 2017, we issued an order modifying bethell i (indicating it changed the judgment) by deleting footnote 4 on pages 9 and 10, and the second sentence of the disposition. (bethell i, supra, b269854.) 3. the 2018 resentencing hearing during the july 11, 2018 resentencing hearing, bethell asked the trial court to strike the firearm enhancements pursuant to senate bill no. 620. bethell also argued that bethell i required concurrent sentences on counts 3 and 4. the court responded: yo 6 saying that . . . the convictions on counts [1] and [2] are reversed; i understand that. i mean, i disagreed with their conclusion but they get paid the big buck the court, turning to the sentences on counts 3 and 4, said: abstract of judgment to reflect the sentences on counts [3] and [4] are concurrent.[6] -settled law, at least my understanding, that when there are counts that are overturned and the matter is remanded, the court has discretion to resentence on other counts. the first instance, i did not make the sentences on counts [3] and [4] concurrent with each other. i made them concurrent with the sentences that i imposed on counts [1] and [2]. but i sentenced them consecutively because i sentenced count [4] to one-third the midterm and one-concurrent sentences as to two counts, you never get to one-third the midterm or one- and maybe i could have been more clear; obviously i could have been more clear in the sentencing in the first place. but the whole point of my sentence initially was that the sentence that i imposed on counts [3] and [4] was concurrent with the sentence that i imposed on counts [1] and [2]. but [counts 3] and [4] were 6 may not have received our modification order. 7 the court noted: remember this case vividly because there was a videotape of this incident . . pes that was hard to see what was going on. it was really clear, like high-definition security cameras that were in this marijuana dispensary, that specifically showed [bethell] dragging the female around by her hair and threatening with the gun, and using the gun, the court wonderedwas a marijuana dispensary and the victims were marijuana dispensary workers. . . . this crime occurred before recent legislation, you know, legalizing marijuana and marijuana dispensaries and so forth in california. but these victims were not it seems to me given the same respect that other victims not working in the marijuana dispensary would receive if they were regarding resentencing, the court observedif i had the discretion, which i feel i do, i would sentence the defendant as follows: and he has never . . . shown any remorse. he testified falsely during the trial itself. his license number . . . on his car was seen by witnesses which helped identify him. he had been at the marijuana dispensary earlier in the day purchasing marijuana, had filled out a card. you had to have a medical card to purchase marijuana at that time, and you had to fill out a form and sign the form. and the young woman who worked at the dispensary recognized him and went back to the cards and was able to pull the card with his name on it to help 8 see that i should exercise my discretion in striking the gun enhancement because of the fact that his use of this gun was blatant and threatening to both of the victims continuously. and this was not like the co-defendant was using the gun. [bethell] was using the gun. and the young woman was absolutely terrified. and she testified during the course of the trial to the terror that she felt, and rightfully so. even when they already had gotten the marijuana, they forced the people to go out the one guy runs off, and the female victim runs back in and locks the door. this was a horrible robbery, and vividly displayed on the tape. so i am not going to grant [bethell] going t on count [3] to the midterm of three years and then ten years for the gun enhancement because . . . i felt that . . . the way the gun was utilized in this case, the vulnerability of the victims, the terror that he caused to them, justified the high[7] term of ten years on as to count 4, gun was used against that separate victim [as] well. so i would select one-third the midterm for a year, plus one-third of the total of 7 the parties acknowledge that at the time the crimes were committed, a section 12022.53, subdivision (b) enhancement was simply 10 years. there is no need to discuss further the trial 9 appropriate for consecutive sentencings because of the fact that there were two victims, and the threat of violence was used against both victims who offered no resistance to [bethell] whatsoever. and [bethell] has previously been unsuccessful on court ordered that the six-month jail term for the battery remain in effect, and that bethell serve that term consecutively to the felony prison terms. b. standard of review and applicable law determine whether multiple sentences are to run concurrently or consecutively. ( 669; [citation].) (people v. lepe (1987) 195 cal.app.3d 1347, 1350.) additionally[t]he legislature amended . . . section 12022.53, subdivision (h), effective january 1, 2018, to give the trial court discretion to strike, in the interest of justice, a firearm enhancement imposed under [that statute]. [citations.] (people v. billingsley (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 1076, 1079-1080, fn. omitted.)8 sentencing decisions for abuse of discretion. (people v. gibson (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 315, 325.) absent a clear showing of abuse, we will not disturb the trial rather than concurrent sentences. (people v. lepe, supra, 195 cal.app.3d at p. 1350.) when, considering all the circumstances, its determination 8 the trial court here expressly acknowledged it had discretion to strike the firearm enhancements and refused to strike them. 10 exceeds the bounds of reason.ibid.) when reviewing for abuse of discretion, we are guided by the fundamental precept that the burden is on the party attacking the sentence to show clearly that the sentencing decision was irrational or arbitrary. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 376-377.) c. analysis we note at the outset that, as indicated above, the trial court imposed consecutive sentences on counts 3 and 4 at the 2016 sentencing heari-third the midterm and one-implicit reference to consecutive sentencing pursuant to section 1170.1, subdivision (a), although, as the trial court recognized, it were consecutive to each other. we note that the january 22, 2016 minute order and the abstract of judgment filed on january 28, 2016, reflect that bethell was to serve his sentences on counts 3 and 4 consecutively to each other. although we originally indicated in dicta9 in bethell i that the sentences on counts 3 and 4 ran concurrently with each other, that was incorrect; we subsequently recognized that the trial court did, in fact, impose on counts 3 and 4 sentences that were consecutive to each other. we modified the opinion to delete footnote 4 and to change the disposition so that it did not mandate that the sentences on counts 3 and 4 be concurrent with each other. 9 bethell i held that insufficient evidence supported the convictions on counts 1 and 2. 11 there is no dispute that, at the 2018 resentencing hearing, the trial court was entitled to impose consecutive sentences on trial court apparently had discretion to impose consecutive sentences. ( the trial court made statements during the resentencing hearing indicating that it disagreed with reversal of concerning those counts. the trial court then shifted its focus to counts 3 and 4. the court characterized bethell the trial court then speculated that we had animosity toward this case and failed to respect the victims because they worked in a marijuana dispensary. when resentencing bethell, the trial court acknowledged its sentencing discretion. the court gave its reasons for the sentence it imposed, including , the falsity of his alibi testimony, his use of a gun, the vulnerability of his victims, and the effect his conduct had on them. (see cal. rules of court, rules 4.421 & 4.425.) nothbethell suggests its exercise of its sentencing discretion was the result of a bias against him engendered by our opinion in bethell i, with which the trial court disagreed. the court supported its choices with sentencing factors drawn from the evidence in this case. both before and after bethell i, the trial court imposed the exact same sentence on counts 3 and 4: bethellsentences on those counts were consecutive to each other. that fact undermines his claim that trial court bias impacting resentencing on those counts arose from the trial bethell i. 12 (people v. superior court (brown) (1980) 111 cal.app.3d 948, 952) of bethell i did not provide a basis for its sentencing choices. (cf. people v. superior court (brown), supra, at p. 952 [record from reading the [trial] comment as anything more than a general discussion on the subject of selective enforcement, surely not as an express finding on the evidence or even as a basis for its ruling that there was no probable cause to stop defendant.)10 we conclude that bethell has failed to demonstrate that the trial court abused its discretion by resentencing him to consecutive sentences or by refusing to strike the firearm enhancements. d. argument the people argue that bethell forfeited his resentencing claim by failing to object on the grounds he asserts here. bethell disagrees, arguing in part that the unmodified bethell i opinion required the trial court to impose concurrent sentences on counts 3 and 4 following remand; therefore, an objection was 10 the people assert bethell is claiming that the trial court express claim. nor does he argue, e.g., that the trial court vindictively imposed a harsher sentence on counts 3 and 4 in violation of due process. (see people v. williams (1998) 61 cal.app.4th 649, 654.) moreover, even if bethell were claiming vindictive resentencing occurred, our previous analysis demonstrates such a claim would be without merit. 13 the courts in this case regarding the remittitur by finding it appears that, at the resentencing hearing, neither the trial court nor the parties had a copy of our order modifying bethell i. in light of our analysis on the merits, taking into consideration the modification order, there is no need to decide the peopleforfeiture argument or whether it would be fair to impute forfeiture (see velasquez v. centrome, inc. (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 1191, 1210-orfeiture is largely a matter of ]). ii. the trial court must correct the abstract of judgment the people claim that the abstract of judgment filed on july 19, 2018 must be corrected because it erroneously omits any reference to -month consecutive sentence for battery. we orders (specify 5, pc 242 misd, defendant to serve 6 months in los angeles county jail to run consecutive to count(s) 3 and 4 and may be served in any however, we note that at item 7 on page 1 of the abstract of judgment, a box was checked to indicate that the trial court additional indeterminate term (see cr-clerical error. in bethell i, we reversed for 2, his only convictions carrying indeterminate terms. we will direct the trial court to correct the above mentioned error. (cf. people v. humiston (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 460, 466, fn. 3.) 14 15 disposition the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to correct item 7 in the abstract of judgment by deleting the check term (see cr- to forward a copy of the corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. bendix, j. 