 filed 6/13/19 p. v. sagastume ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose sagastume, defendant and appellant. b291148 los angeles county super. ct. no. ka113478 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas c. falls, judge. conviction affirmed; remanded with directions. lori a. quick, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and shezad h. thakor, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant jose sagastume pled no contest to three counts of lewd acts on his three stepchildren. in accordance with the plea agreement, the trial court sentenced sagastume to 12 years in the state prison. the court ordered sagastume to submit to aids testing under penal code section 1202.1.1 on appeal, sagastume argues the evidence was believe that blood, semen, or any other bodily fluid capable of victims. ( 1202.1, subd. (e)(6)(a)(iii).) the attorney general the prosecution an opportunity to offer additional evidence the parties also agree the trial court must correct an error in the 2 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 2 in his notice of appeal filed in propria persona, sagastume purports to raise other grounds for appeal, including the trial post-sentencing motions he filed for discovery and to dismiss the case under section 995. sagastume did not obtain a certificate of probable cause as to these matters. on july 24, 2018, the administrative presiding justice of this court issued an order tdo not require a certificate of probable cause. 3 facts and procedural background 1. 3 when k.4 was 11 or 12 years old, she came to the united states to live jose sagastume. k. was in the sixth grade. at first, k. viewed sagastume as the father figure she had never had. one night around midnight k. awoke to find sagastume in bed with hera bed she usually shared with her mother. k. a left .e, touching the back of her shoulder. k. turned her back to sagastume. she saw his pajamas were k. pretended to be asleep until sagastume got up and left the room. two to three months later, when k. was 12, she awoke very earlyat 4:00 or 5:00 a.m.when she felt movement. sagastume was in bed with k. and he had two fingers in her vagina. sagastume was rubbing her clitoris. k. tried to remove she pinched his wrist and he then removed his hand. sagastume told k.: to going to believe you. because if she does believe you, i am going to kill her and kill your siblings 3 because the case resolved before trial, we take the facts from the preliminary hearing testimony. 4 we refer to the minor victims by the initials of their first names to protect their privacy. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.90(b)(4).) 4 5 sagastume told k. he when k. was 13 or 14 and in the eighth grade, she caught sagastume lying on the floor outside the bathroom, looking under the door while she was taking a shower. sagastume also grabbed he also showed her pornographic images on his phone 10 to 15 times. younger brother a.y. came to live with his mother and sagastume when he was about seven or eight years old. after school one afternoon when a.y. was about 11 or 12, he was sitting on a large pillow in front of the television. sagastume . . . over his p.e. clothes. sagastume told a.y. that and pushed it away. he was seven years old. s. was coming out of the bathroom, 2. the charges, plea disposition, and sentence following the preliminary hearing, the people filed an information charging sagastume with three counts of lewd act on a child under 14, one for each of his stepchildren (counts 1, 4, and 6). the people also charged sagastume with forcible lewd act on a child (count 2) and lewd act on a child age 14 (count 3), both against victim k. on may 8, 2018, sagastume entered into 5 the spanish language interpreter explained the kaibiles 5 a plea agreement with the people. sagastume pled no contest to counts 1, 4, and 6. in accordance with the agreement, the court sentenced sagastume to 12 years in the state prison. the court imposed the upper term of eight years on count 1, plus one-third the midterm (six years) of two years each on counts 4 and 6, to run consecutively to count 1. the court ordered the los angeles county saliva samples from sagastume and test them for hiv under section 1202.1. discussion section 1202.1 requires a defendant convicted of lewd or lascivious conduct with a child to submit to a blood or saliva test probable causative agent of that there is probable cause to believe that blood, semen, or any other bodily fluid capable of transmitting hiv has been transferred from the defendant to the victsubd. (a), (e)(6)(a)(iii).) sagastume contends there was insufficient evidence before the trial court to constitute probable cause.6 the attorney general therefore suggests court to give the prosecution the opportunity to offer evidence, if we agree (people v. 6 the parties agree sagastume may challenge the aids test order on appeal even though he did not object in the trial court. people v. butler (2003) 31 cal.4th 1119, 1123.) 6 butler, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 1129) and remand the case for further proceedings on this point. finally, the parties also agree there is an error in the minute order of the sentencing. as noted, the plea agreement provided for the sentences on counts 4 and 6 to be one-third the midterm of six yearsthat is, two years eachto be served consecutively to the eight years imposed on count 1 (the principal term). the trial court correctly pronounced the sentence. the abstract of judgment also correctly reflects the sentences on counts 4 and 6 are two years but the count 4 is to run concurrent to the sentence imposed in con remand, the trial court is to correct the minute order dated june 15, 2018 to reflect that the sentence on count 4 is consecutive to the sentences on counts 1 and 6. 7 disposition we affirm jose the case for the trial court to (1) permit the people, if they wish, to present evidence sufficient to constitute the probable cause required by penal code section 1202.1 for hiv testing, and (2) correct the minute order of the sentencing. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: lavin, acting p. j. dhanidina, j. 