 filed 8/9/19 p. v. odell ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. floyd odell, defendant and appellant. b291223 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba436727) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, ronald s. coen, judge. affirmed. law firm of jonathan d. evans and jonathan d. evans for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, stephanie c. brenan, supervising deputy attorney general, heather b. arambarri, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant floyd odell (defendant) of murdering charles wilson (wilson), attempting to murder pamela freeman (pamela), and other associated firearm-related offenses. defendant elected to represent himself during pretrial proceedings, but almost a year later, on the day trial was to begin, defendant requested a continuance to substitute retained counsel. the trial court denied request but allowed him to have previously appointed standby counsel take over his defensegranting only a very short continuance of the trial date to enable standby counsel to further prepare. we consider whether either to delay trial to obtain retained counsel, or the denial of standby the trial date, deprived defendant of his sixth amendment rights to counsel of his choice and effective assistance of counsel. i. background a. pretrial proceedings regarding counsel for defendant when criminal proceedings began in may 2016, defendant was initially represented by the los angeles county public the los angeles county alternate public conflict. about two weeks after the apd was appointed, the trial marsden motion to relieve counsel.1 a month later, the trial court denied another marsden motion and defendant submitted a written faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 advisement and waiver form invoking his 1 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 3 right to represent himself.2 the trial court granted defendantself-representation request and relieved the apd as attorney of record in april 2017. about a week after the court granted defendant self-represented status, the court appointed jimmie johnson (johnson) as standby counsel pursuant to los angeles county superior court local rule 8.43 (rule 8.43). rule 8.43 provides, among other things, that all discovery must be made available to standby counsel and standby counsel is expected to take over the self-represented status is revoked or relinquished. (rule 8.43, subds. (b)-(d).) the rule also makes clear, however, that advisory counsel nor provide the defendant with legal advice unless requested to do so by the court. (rule 8.43, subd. (b).) months later, in november 2017, defendant filed a motion to replace johnson with a specific attorney from the indigent criminal defense appointment panel that defendant preferred. johnson represented a request for a specific attorney would not be honored by the indigent criminal defense appointment panel and the trial court denied motion. 2 defendant initialed the form in various places to acknowledgprofesnowledged continuance of the trial will be allowed without a showing of good cause[ ] and . . . such requests made just before trial will most likely be denied] change[s his] mind and request[s] an attorney to handle [his] case, the court may deny this request and . . . [he] may have to proceed with the trial 4 the trial court thereafter continue the trial date and to appoint an expert to analyze dna evidence. when the case was called for trial in february 2018, the court again continued the trial to march but warned no further continuances would be granted. the case was again called for trial on march 26, 201objection, the trial court deemed both parties ready. trial was set to begin on april 3, 2018. the parties appeared in court on that date and defendant requested a 60-day continuance of the trial date because he was told the court attorney and he [the attorney, jonathan evans (evans)], on short 3 the trial court acknowledged evans did have another attorney appear on his behalf in another courtroom earlier that morning but noted assignment 4 explaining further, the trial court told defendant that his that defendant did not have the retained attorney at the trial 3 april 3, 2018, was a tuesday. the following thursday, the date evans was due back in town, was april 12, 2018. 4 no transcript of the proceedings in department 100 is included in the appellate record. the pertinent minute order that is included in the record states an attorney appeared on behalf of evans. according to the minute order, defendant represented evans had been retained and defendant lodged with the court a motion for a continuance (which also is not included in the appellate record). the judge presiding in department 100 declined to permit substitution. 5 readiness conference held the prior week, and that the court was sure the trial assignment judge had considered case law that defendant protested he had they [were] then cited additional authority to e[o] make his request to have private counsel represent him, and remarking that -informed the court he wanted to relinquish his self-represented status and have standby counsel appointed to represent him at trial. standby counsel johnson was present in court, as he had been for all pretrial appearances, and the court immediately . johnson then the fairness,opening statements to begin no earlier than the following monday, april 9, 2018. in the morning on the date trial began, april 5, 2018, n in support of the continuance but emphasized he was not able in that capacity to file motions, engage 6 additional time to search for witnesses identified in police reports, study the dna and toxicology evidence in the case and johnson added he was obligated to give defendant competent, effective representation and the trial court denied court explained johnson had been standby counsel since may 2017 (i.e., roughly a year before the start of trial) and emphasized the local court rules contemplate standby counsel will take over when a defendant relinquishes self-represented status close to trial. the court further reasoned: counseland again, this is not your problemis you take the case as it comes. you have been given, under [rule 8.43,] subdivision (c), all discovery. the fact that you would have done items differently as a diligent counsel is not grounds to grant the continuance. . . . the problem with standby counsel is one does accept the case as one gets trial then proceeded with johnson as counsel for defendant. b. the offense conduct, as established by the evidence at trial 1. the charged attempted murders freeman (james) testified he and his wife were about to enter their car on may 12, 2015, when he turned to see the flash of a gun. he was shot once in the groin. he did not see who shot him and he did not recognize defendant 7 at trial. pamela testified she knew defendant from previous encounters. she saw defendant approach her husband, shoot him once, and fire multiple shots at her as she ran away, with one bullet hitting her hand. 2. the charged murder elisha bables (bables) testified the murder victim wilson (bables) according to bables, wilson, defendant, and friends gathered in on may 18, 2015, d[m]iscellaneous, frivolous things. defendant left, but returned bables and wilson went outside to talk to him. bables was walking in front of wilson and defendant when she heard shots, turned around, and saw she saw wilson it looked like [defendant] was shooting himbegged defendant not to hurt her and he left.5 5 johnson requested a sidebar during his cross-examination of bables and asked for permission to inquire whether wilson because] he had to [do so] or [a criminal street] johnson argued he should be permitted to elicit an answer to the question because if wilson made a statement to that effect it would be a not permit johnson to ask the question. 8 3. the defense defendant testified in his own defense. as to the attempted murder charges against him, he told the jury he borrowed money from james and gave him a gun to hold as collateral. believing defendant had repaid the loan in full, james was returning the gun to him when he realized defendant had repaid only part of the loan. james then ; both james and pamela were hit. defendant did not say how many shots were fired. as for murder victim wilson, defendant testified that although he he left the gathering bables kept going into . . . different little defendant was leaving, wilson then approached defendant with a gun and defendant hit him. around the same time, an unknown third party fired shots at defendant and he reacted by using claimed he then tried to revive wilson, who had been shot, by , but when defendant was unsuccessful he left the scene. c. verdict and posttrial motions the jury found defendant guilty of the second degree murder of wilson, the attempted murder of pamela,6 two counts of assault with a firearm (pen. code,7  245, subd. (a)), and 6 defendant had also been charged with the attempted murder of james but the jury was unable to reach a unanimous verdict on that charge and it was later dismissed. 7 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 9 possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)). it also found true several alleged firearm enhancements. ( 12022.5, 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d), 12022.7, subd. (a).) evans replaced johnson as attorney of record after the trial. both johnson and evans filed motions for a new trial on . challenged (1) the trial his request for a longer continuance to prepare for trial and (2) cross-examine bables regarding whether she overheard wilson say he planned s motion challenged (1) refusal to continue the trial so evans could represent defendant at trial, and (2) johnsonclaiming he - the trial court denied both motions. ineffective assistance of counsel argument, the court found did not fall asleep, of representing the the court further emphasized of james. regarding the denial of the day-of-trial request to substitute evans in as counsel, the court reiterated the request 8 8 evans did not dispute not prepared to start trial when he sought to substitute in to the case. 10 the trial court sentenced defendant to an indeterminate three strikes law sentence of 50 years to life in prison for the murder of wilson (including a five-year term pursuant to people v. williams (2004) 34 cal.4th 397) and 25 years consecutive for the associated section 12022.53, subdivision (d) firearm enhancement true finding; life in prison for the attempted murder of pamela and 25 years consecutive for the associated section 12022.53 finding; and life in prison for one of the assault with a firearm convictions. sentences on other counts and for other enhancements were stayed. ii. discussion defendant seeks per se reversal of his convictions because, in his view, denying the last-minute motions to continue the trialto allow evans to take over the defense and, failing that, to give johnson additional time to prepare and litigate the casewas an abuse of discretion infringing on his constitutional rights to counsel of his choice and effective assistance of counsel. a right to counsel of his choice, however, is not absolute. although considerations of administrative efficiency and judicial economy yield to a justifiable request for a defendant offers no legitimate justification for waiting until the morning of trial to inform the trial court he wanted to proceed with retained counsel. and regardless of whether johnson would have litigated the case differently if he had not served in a standby capacity until the eve of trial, defendant has identified 11 no place in the appellate record that demonstrates his performance was constitutionally deficient.9 a. the court did not abuse its discretion when denying a continuance to permit evans to take over as counsel criminal defendants have a constitutional right to the assistance of counsel for their defense. (u.s. const., 6th & 14th amends.; cal. const., art. i, 15.) n element of this right is the right of a defendant who does not require appointed counsel to choose who will represent himunited states v. gonzalez-lopez (2006) 548 u.s. 140, 144.) trial courts, however, wide latitude in balancing the right to counsel of choice against the needs of fairness [citation] and against the demands of its calendar id. at p. 152.) a defendants request for a continuance to enable him to obtain independent counsel of his choice is addressed to the trial courts sound discretion, and not every denial of such a request constitutes an abuse of discretion.people v. vermouth (1974) 42 cal.app.3d 353, 360.) 9 in advance of oral argument, we issued an order to show cause why evans should not be sanctioned for submitting an opening brief with virtually no citations to the record in violation of california rules of court, rule 8.204(a)(1)(c). in response, evans filed an opposition and a compliant opening brief. having given the matter due consideration, and having received assurances that adherence to the rules of court will be given the priority it deserves in future cases, we exercise our discretion not to impose sanctions. 12 counsel is an abuse of discretion. (people v. crovedi (1996) 65 cal.2d 199, 207 (crovedi)in the circumstances present in every case, particularly in the reasons presented to the trial judge at the time the request is ibid.) the accused is a justifiable request for delay can render the right to defend with courts should accommodate such requestswhen they are linked to an assertion of the right to retained counselextent consistent with effectpeople v. courts (1985) 37 cal.3d 784, 790-791 (courts).) thus, while trial courts have been found to have an obligation to permit a requested substitution of retained counsel that comes more than a week before trial and reflects diligence in securing private representation, this contrasted with . . . eve-of-trial, day-of-trial, and second-day-of-trial requests . . . courts, supra, 37 cal.3d at pp. 792-793 & fn. 4.) in those eleventh-hour situations, the lateness of a denial where there [are] no compelling circumstances to the id. at p. 792, fn. 4.) examples of compelling circumstances to the contrary recognized in prior cases include last-minute charging decisions that substantially increase the of counsel. (see, e.g., people v. byoune (1966) 65 cal.2d 345, 347.) when, on the other hand, a defendant offers no legitimate 13 justification for delay in seeking to engage private counsel, reviewing courts have affirmed rulings denying a continuance to permit substitution of private counsel without need for a showing of specific prejudice to the court, to witnesses, or to the people that would result from granting the continuance. (see, e.g., people v. blake (1980) 105 cal.app.3d 619, 624-here, as here, the appellant has been provided a reasonable opportunity to obtain counsel of his own choice, no abuse of discretion occurs if the trial court fails to grant an additional continuance at or after the commencement of the trialpeople v. pigage (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 1359, 1367; people v. brady (1969) 275 cal.app.2d 984, 993-994.) there are no compelling contrary circumstances here that establish the trial court abused its discretion when denying -of-trial request for a continuance to have evans take over his representation. defendant had plenty of time to seek to engage private counsel before the day scheduled for trial: nearly two years had elapsed since the preliminary hearing and it had been nearly three years since the offense conduct. defendant was also well aware of the need to move quickly and timely retain counsel from the advisements on the farretta waiver form he signed a year earlier (a request for a ) h before trial that there would be no further continuances. the court also held a trial readiness conference just over a week before the april 3, 2018, trial date and there is nothing in the record that demonstrates defendant gave any indication at that time that he would be seeking to have private counsel take over his defense. there is likewise nothing in the record that suggests anything 14 about the criminal proceedings meaningfully changed in the month preceding trialno last-minute charging decisions and no evidence. under these circumstances, the trial court could reasonably view substitute retained counsel and have trial proceed at an uncertain future date not as a responsible invocation of his right to counsel of his choosing but as a tactic to further delay a trial that he had repeatedly delayed and been told would be delayed no further. put differently, the to substitute retain counsel was not an abuse of discretion.10 b. longer continuance was not an abuse of discretion and johnson provided effective assistance of counsel during trial request for a continuance left him with inadequate time to prepare. the argument is not well developed, but it is still apparent that it lacks merit. 10 defendant additionally deny him a continuance to substitute evans as attorney of record -, . . . rule 8.43 deprived [him] of his sixth amendment in effect, defendant contends rule 8.43 deprives self-represented defendants of the right to force a continuance to accommodate a belated request to substitute counsel by providing an alternative (i.e., standby counsel) who may require less time to prepare. there is no such right. 15 attends the proceedings so as to be familiar with the case in the event that the defendant gives up or loses his or her right to self-people v. moore (2011) 51 cal.4th 1104, 1119, fn. 7.) inherent in the concept of standby counsel is the enable him or her to step into the shoes of the former self-represented defendant without delay. (people v. blair (2005) 36 cal.4th 686, 725 [the benefit of the court whose responsibility is to step in and represent the defendant if that should become necessary because, s in propria persona status is revoked], disapproved on another ground in people v. black (2014) 58 cal.4th 912.) just as an attorney who substitutes into a case late in the proceedings will find himself or herself bound by previous tactical or procedural decisions made by prior counsel (smith v. whittier (1892) 95 cal. 279, 289), johnson had no valid legal basis to seek further delay in an attempt to walk back decisions defendant had made while representing himself. the opposed to 30 to 45 days, was not an abuse of discretion and certainly not a violation of constitutional guarantees. (crovedi, supra, 65 cal.2d at pp. 206-207 [the matter of continuance is traditionally within the discretion of the trial judge, and it is not every denial of a request for more time that violates due process even if a party fails to offer evidence or is compelled to defend without counsel], italics added.) defendant further argues, however, that actual performance during trial (sans his requested continuance) was constitutionally deficient in two specific respects. first, 16 defendant contends that before he relinquished his self-represented status, of self-unreasonably trial based on provocative act murder, without consulting with defendant contends johnson provided ineffective assistance because he failed to object on discovery grounds when pamela, in response to a question about what happened when she was shot, answered: like this [placing both of her hands on top of her head] because i . . . counss representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694[ ]; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 217[ (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1189.) we s performance fell within the wide range of professional competence and that counsels actions and inactions (ibid.) the defense at trial but rather a defense that an unknown third party happened to be shooting at defendant while defendant was scuffling with wilson and defendant used wilson as a human shield. there is no reason to believe on this record thaprofessional norms. ( (2010) 48 cal.4th 257, 286 [the right to present a defense of his 17 own choosing, but merely the right to an adequate and competent defensepeople v. weaver where counsels trial tactics or strategic reasons for challenged decisions do not appear on the record, we will not find ineffective assistance of counsel on appeal unless there could be no conceivable reason for counsels acts or omissions to the contrary, even if a self-defense theory was viable at some point, it was severely weakened by the unchallenged on appealthat the defense could not ask bables about statements by wilson suggesting he intended to kill defendant. defendant himself testified he did not shoot wilson and there is little, if any, other admissible evidence that would support a self-defense theory. johnson, on the other hand, was able to advance the third-party shooter theory based on arguable s testimony that she saw defendant grabbing wilsofound no physical evidence to confirm wilson was shot at close range. as to the asserted failure by johnson to object when pamela gestured about how she was shot (defendant claims he was denied discovery about a demonstration pamela earlier made to detectives), spontaneous demonstration while testifying does not, of course, establish a discovery violation, and [c]ounsel may not be deemed incompetent for failure to make people v. lucero (2000) 23 cal.4th 692, 732.) there is also no reasonable probability she was shot had any impact on the outcome of this case. hands were on her head or not had little or no 18 bearing on her credibility when it was undisputed she was indeed shot in the hand. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: rubin, p. j. kim, j. 