filed 11/4/19 p. v. fultz ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent. v. jonathan isiah fultz, jr., defendant and appellant. b291461 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma071858) appeal from judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, stephen i. goorvitch, judge. affirmed in part; reversed in part and remanded with instructions. john l. staley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and michael katz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________ 2 jonathan isiah fultz, jr., appeals from a judgment entered after the jury convicted him of assault with a firearm, shooting a firearm in a grossly negligent manner, and misdemeanor resisting, delaying, or obstructing a peace officer. fultz contends the trial court erred by instructing the jury with calcrim no. 875 for assault with a firearm, and there was insufficient evidence to support his conviction on this count. he also challenges the the instruction focused unfair scrutiny on his credibility. in argument that fultz committed the misdemeanor offense violated counsel. fultz also requests we review the sealed record of the trial all relevant complaints in response to his pitchess1 motion seeking discovery of the personnel records. finally, fultz contends, the people concede, and we agree, remand for resentencing is appropriate to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion under senate bill no. 1393 (2017-2018 reg. sess.), which took effect january 1, 2019, to consider whether to strike the prior serious felony conviction enhancements the trial court imposed pursuant to penal code2 section 667, subdivision (a)(1). we affirm the convictions but reverse the sentence and remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to impose or strike the sentence enhancements for 1 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531, 536-538 (pitchess). 2 further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 serious felony convictions pursuant to penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1). factual and procedural background a. the information the information charged fultz with shooting at an inhabited dwelling ( 246; count 1); assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2); count 2); and misdemeanor resisting, delaying, or obstructing a peace officer ( 148, subd. (a)(1); count 3). as to counts 1 and 2, the information alleged fultz committed the offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4) [count 1]; id., subd. (b)(1) [count 2]; id., subd. (b)(5) [counts 1 & 2].) the amended information alleged as to counts 1 and 2 fultz suffered two prior convictions of a violent or serious felony under the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12); two prior serious felony convictions within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1); and two prior felony convictions for which he served separate prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). fultz pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. b. the prosecution case 1. the incident jimmy dozier lived in a second floor apartment in a two-story building on beech avenue in lancaster. fultz stayed with his girlfriend, starla penn, and their two young daughters in an apartment on the first floor of the building. there was graffiti in 4 was a street gang.3 on the morning of july 24, 2017, as dozier went to get his mail, he encountered fultz standing outside his apartment with his other. dozier walked upstairs to his apartment and called his messe 4 dozier, drake, and franco approached fultz who was with four other men in front of the building next door. when fultz saw dozier and his friends, fultz left. dozier did not have a gun, and he did not see his friends or the four men with fultz with a gun. dozier and his friends waited for fultz to return, but after someone told them fultz went to get a g later that night dozier was in his apartment on his way from the back room to the front of the apartment, when drake and franco ran toward the back of the apartment in a panic. franco said he had seen fultz coming with a gun. dozier and his friends 3 at trial, the parties stipulated fultz was a member of the menlo crips, a criminal street gang. 4 dozier initially denied jermaine was involved, but he later admitted jermaine was in his group. dozier explained he lied to 5 jumped out of the window in the back of the apartment to the ground. jermaine also jumped out the window. dozier ran toward the front of the apartment building; drake and franco went in the opposite direction toward the alleyway. after dozier jumped out of gunshots.5 dozier ducked into the nearby bushes and called 911 on his cellphone. to the 911 call and spoke with dozier at the apartment building. dozier told deputy foley that someone shot at him and his friends in the apartment. dozier appeared very scared and was rambling. the deputies found a silver .40-caliber shell casing lying in the dirt in front of the apartment building. the casing was from a bullet that had been fired. the deputies searched for 20 minutes, but they did not find any bullets or bullet holes in the first or second floor. 2. at 10:00 the next morning fultz sent several messages on his 6 em up off me. hawk. 5 on cross-examination, dozier testified he heard the gunshots 6 l 6 the gang expert, los angeles police officer jaime avila, h is a term used by crip gang members to refer to iduring the commission of a crime to show he belongs to the gang. 3. s arrest and interrogation on august adam nelson, who was in uniform, responded to a call indicating a suspect for assault with a firearm had been seen in the area. deputy nelson saw fultz walk into a parking garage. deputy nelson parked his patrol vehicle in the same garage, exited the away, and deputy nelson and another deputy in uniform chased him. fultz was arrested, and deputy nelson took him to a parking lot to conduct a field identification. deputy nelson repeatedly asked fultz to exit the patrol car for the field identification, but fultz refused. giovanni lampignano interrogated fultz about the july 24 incident. fultz stated on that date he was in los angeles, not lancaster. detective lampignano asked fultz for his personal on july 24. fultz gave him a cellphone number. 7 fultz told detective lampignano the video cameras in the apartment building would show fultz was not at the scene. the next morning detective lampignano went with the apartment building manager into the room in the apartment building that contained the surveillance equipment. the building manager looked shocked upon discovering the surveillance equipment was gone, with the cables cut or ripped. 4. while in jail awaiting trial, fultz had a telephone conversation with his friend jannise merritt. fultz stated he had detective asked him whether he had a phone. fultz asked merritt to disconnect his phone line. in another jail call, fultz and penn discussed the apartment . . . fu . . . how . . . did it . . . in another jail call, fultz told penn he was with a friend named biscuit at the time of the shooting, not at the apartment complex, and he asked penn to tell biscuit he was with her on that day. c. the defense case fultz testified he was a menlo crips gang member and went by the name hawk. on the morning of july 24, 2017 fultz was 8 watching his two daughters, then ages two and three, who were playing outside their ground floor apartment. fultz went to dump the trash in the alley. when fultz returned, he saw dozier talking to his daughters by the mailboxes. fultz knew dozier was not fultz. dozier then went up the stairs while looking back at fultz. when he saw five or six men, incland called merritt to pick him up because he thought the men were trying to jump him. went the front of the building to wait for merritt. while he was in the courtyard, fultz heard people running up behind him, and he grabbed his hip where he was carrying his gun.7 -man ran up and struck him in the face. fultz fell down, and a couple of other men hit and kicked fultz. dozier was not among the men who jumped him. as the men were beating fultz, they said, tz got up, he 7 fultz carried a gun for protection because he had been shot before and was afraid something could happen to him because of his past conduct. 9 reached for his gun and realized it was gone. one of the men had his gun. he grabbed the man around the waist and wrestled with him. as they struggled over the gun, fultz heard a shot go off. fultz ran toward beech avenue, he got in merrileft. fultz denied he shot anyone that night. his facebook was not true. fultz admitted he lied to detective lampignano on the day of his arrest when he denied any involvement in the july 24 incident; he also lied when he said he was not called hawk. fultz did not tell detective lampignano what happened because he him talking to the police about the incident. detective lampignano told fultz he was being charged with assault with a deadly weapon, but fultz did not tell him or other police officers that he had been attacked. he was aware his jail calls were being recorded, and his attorney had advised him to not talk about the incident over the phone. d. the verdicts and sentencing the jury found fultz not guilty of shooting at an inhabited dwelling, but guilty of the lesser included offense of shooting a firearm in a grossly negligent manner ( 246.3; count 1). the jury found fultz guilty of assault with a firearm and resisting, delaying, or obstructing a peace officer. the jury found the gang allegations as to counts 1 and 2 were not true. in a bifurcated proceeding, fultz admitted the special allegations he suffered two prior violent or serious felony 10 convictions under the three strikes law and two prior serious felony convictions within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1).8 the trial court sentenced fultz on count 2 to an indeterminate term of 25 years to life under the three strikes law, plus 10 years for the two prior serious felony convictions. on count 1, the court sentenced fultz to an aggregate term of seven years, comprised of the upper term of three years, doubled under the three strikes law, plus one year for a prison prior under section 667.5, subdivision (b). the court stayed the sentence on count 1 pursuant to section 654. on count 3, the court sentenced fultz to 364 days in county jail to run concurrent to the sentence imposed on count 1. fultz timely appealed. discussion a. the trial court properly instructed the jury with calcrim no. 875 essential elements of . . . a charged offense . . . people v. mil (2012) 53 cal.4th 400, 409, citations omitted; accord, people v. spaccia (2017) 12 cal.app.5th has a right to accurate instructions on the elements of a charged state the law [citations] and also whether instructions effectively direct a finding adverse to a defendant by removing an issue from . . . people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 8 fultz did not admit he served two prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b), as alleged in the information. therefore, on remand the trial court should dismiss this allegation. 11 193, 218; accord, people v. mendez (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 654, 659.) structions should be interpreted, if possible, so as to support the judgment rather than defeat it if they are reasonably spaccia, at p. 1287; accord, people v. webb (2018) 25 cal.app.5th 901, 906.) for assault with a firearm, the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. e defendant is charged in count 2 with assault with a firearm, in violation of penal code section 245(a)(2). [] to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove the following elements beyond a reasonable doubt: [] 1. the defendant did an act with a firearm. [] 2. the defendant did that act willfully. [] 3. when the defendant acted, he was aware of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that his act by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to someone. [] 4. when the defendant acted, he had the present ability to apply force with a firearm. and, [] 5. the defendant did not act in self- during deliberations, the jury sent a note to the trial court es this mean the firearm had to be discharged toward jimmy dozier people are not required to prove that the defendant actually fired the gun at jimmy dozier. the people are required to prove beyond firing the gun in a manner where the direct and probable result would be the application of force to jimmy dozier. [] this instruction seeks to clarify the first element. . . 12 fultz contends the trial court erred in instructing the jury on the elements of an assault with firearm using the natural and probable consequence language in calcrim no. 875. but as acknowledged by fultz, calcrim no. 875 is based on the supreme people v. williams (2001) 26 cal.4th 779, 782 (williams). in williams, the supreme court held that assault requires actual knowledge of the facts sufficient to establish that the defendants act by its nature will probably and directly result in ibid.; accord, in re b.m. (2018) 6 cal.5th 528, 533; people v. perez (2018) 4 ssault with a deadly weapon is a general intent crime; the required mens rea is establish that the act by its nature will probably and directly result .) the williams efendant guilty of assault must be aware of the facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that a battery would directly, naturally and probably result from his conduct. he may not be convicted based on facts he did not know but should have known. he, however, need not be (williams, at p. 788; accord, people v. chance (2008) 44 cal.4th 1164, 1170 (chanceassault because the assaultive act, by its nature, subsumes such an ; people v. wyatt (2010) 48 williams, a defendant may commit an assault without realizing he is harming the victim, but the prosecution must prove the defendant was aware of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that a battery would directly, naturally, and probably result 13 fultz contends calcrim no. mental state required for an assault to be negligence, rather than williamswilliams is not synonymous with the mental state of negligence. as the williams n adopting this knowledge requirement, we do not disturb our previous holdings. assault is still a general intent crime . . . . likewise, mere recklessness or criminal negligence is still not enough . . . , because a jury cannot find a defendant guilty of assault based on facts he should have known but did not know . . . (williams, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 788, citations omitted.) fultz also argues he cannot be guilty of assault because the jury, in concluding he negligently discharged the firearm, must have determined he did not intend to shoot anyone. but the supreme court in williams rejected a specific intent requirement, williams, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 788.) the supreme was not likely to result in a battery is still guilty of assault if a reasonable person, viewing the facts known to defendant, would find that the act would directly, naturally and probably result in a id. at p. 788, fn. 3.) law in williams. (k.r. v. superior court (2017) 3 cal.5th 295, 308 [i]t is established that a holding of the supreme court binds all of the lower courts in the state, including an intermediate appellate court.people v. johnson (2012) 53 cal.4th 519, 527-528 [decisions of supreme court are binding on appellate courts].) calcrim no. 875, which instructs the jury that for assault with a 14 firearm the people must prove hen the defendant acted, he was aware of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that his act by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to someoneis consistent with this supreme court precedent. (see people v. golde (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 101, 122 [calcrim no. the jurors they could consider the absence of injury as reflecting an absence of intent to harm. b. substantial evidence supports the conviction for assault with a firearm judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the people v. westerfield (2019) 6 cal.5th 632, 713; accord, people v. penunuri (2018) 5 cal.5th 126, the whole record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt.standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact reasonably could infer from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might westerfield, at p. 713; accord, penunuri, at p. 15 hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to fultz contends there is insufficient evidence to support his conviction for assault with a firearm upon dozier. fultz admits his facebook messages referred to shooting someone but argues the messages do not establish he actually discharged the firearm at dozier. fultz also asserts dozier did not hear the gunshots until dozier had jumped out of his apartment; thus, the shots could not have been directed at dozier. further, he contends there was no found in the dirt in the front of the apartment building and the fultz ignores the contrary evidence that supports his conviction for assault with a firearm. fultz and dozier had a confrontation the morning of the shooting. dozier testified fultz when dozier and his friends approached fultz and his men, fultz left to get a gun. fultz admitted he was carrying a gun that day. dozier was in his apartment when franco alerted him fultz had a gun, and they all jumped out of the back window. dozier heard two gang. the day after the shooting, fultz sent a facebook message reasonably infer from the evidence that fultz intended to shoot at realize the direct, natural, and probable result would be shooting dozier in his apartment. (williams, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 788.) 16 further, the jury could have reasonably inferred fultz had the present ability to shoot dozier, even though dozier escaped before dozier fired the shots. the supreme court in chance addressed a similar fact pattern, in which the defendant attempted to shoot at a police officer, but he shot in the wrong direction because the officer had moved behind the defendant, and the defendant had not yet transferred a new round into the firing chamber. (chance, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 1168, 1173.) in upholding the assault conviction, the chance court observed, required by section 240 if he is capable of inflicting injury on the given occasion, even if some steps remain to be taken, and even if the victim or the surrounding id. at p. 1172.) c. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by giving a 1. instruction while the trial court and counsel were at sidebar, the judicial assistant informed them fultz was speaking with detective lampignano in front of the jury. in a hearing outside the presence of the jury, detective lampignano testified fultz said to him in going toyou were going to put me away for life. how can you n front of the jury. you 17 again, if you talk to a witness, if you talk to [the prosecutor], if you talk to the [investigating officer], if you talk to anyone in the gallery, if you speak to [your attorney] in a manner that disrupts the courtroom, if you interact with me, if you interact with my staff to remind you that you are to disregard anything you hear when court is not in session or when the attorneys and i are out in the hallway discussing matters. you shall not consider anything you later during his trial testimony, fultz explained he tried to invent an alibi with his high school friend biscuit because he was the is now the second time that [fultz] has informed this jury that he is going to jail for life if he is convicted. the first time was an outburst that happened while we were at sidebar, which i thought was completely inappropriate and completely manipulative of the process. . . . [] . . . anguage from the model instruction saying that you shall not consider punishment, unless considering going further and saying . . gone through the file. i do not know what the jury will convict him 18 of, if anything. . . . i do not know what will happen with the priors trial. . . the door in the line of questioning about whether [fultz] attempted to invent an alibi with biscuit. . . . and it would be inappropriate el suggested the trial court instruct the jury with the standard instruction not to consider punishment. she argued it would not be appropriate to when the jury returned, the trial court advised the jury that the court reporter read back the quesfor why he tried to invent an alibi with biscuit. the court correct or incorrect in his belief as to the potential sentence in this case. you may only consider that reference for purposes of relation to that last answer, in relation to the subject discussed in his last answer. [] i just want to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that when you are deliberating, you must reach your 2. the limiting instruction was proper p19 abuse its discretion. . . . for one purpose and is inadmissible as to . . . another purpose, the court upon request shall restrict the evidence to its proper scope and instruct the jury 355; see people v. hernandez (2004) 33 people v. snchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411, 456; accord people v. perez (2017) 18 cal.app.5th 598, 620.) the trial court acted well within its discretion when it given this was the second time fultz improperly commented on punishment. (see people v. mendoza (1974) 37 cal.app.3d 717, 727 [improper for prosecutor to comment on penalty defendant will calcrim no. tried to invent an alibi, the court instructed the jury to consider hy he invented an alibi) and his credibility (whether his invention of the alibi made him less credible). purpose, did not single out fultz or instruct the jury to give extra people v. wright (1988) 45 cal.3d 1126, relied on by fultz, is distinguishable. the defendant in wright requested the court instruct the jury that it could consider 20 specific evidence introduced at trial in determining whether the defendant was guilty. (id. at p. 1135.) the court of appeal concluded the trial court properly refused to give the instruction, witness and to charge the jury how his evidence should be ibid., fn. 6; accord, people v. lyons (1958) 50 cal.2d 245, 271, overruled on another ground in people v. green (1980) 27 cal.3d 1, 32.) by contrast, the limiting instruction here appropriately allowed fultz to comment on his expected punishment to rehabilitate his credibility by explaining why he tried to create an alibi, but prohibited the jury from considering d. constitutional rights or constitute ineffective assistance of counsel 1. trial evidence and defense at trial, deputy nelson testified he was in uniform when he exited his patrol car and approached fultz to talk to him. fultz ran away, and deputy nelson and another deputy chased him. fultz this was about you knowhere my people stay like, right where my daughters is at, you feel me? . . fultz is guilty of count 3. count 3 is delaying a police officer. no question that he ran. [the prosecutor] argued that it was 21 evidence of his guilt. but i think if you listen to the interrogation 2. the concession was not tantamount to a guilty plea fultz concession that fultz was guilty on count 3 of delaying a peace officer violated his constitutional right against self-incrimination, right to a jury trial, and right to confront witnesses, relying on people v. farwell (2018) 5 cal.5th farwell is misplaced. in farwell, prosecutor that was read to the jury, which admitted all elements of a misdemeanor charge against the defendant. (id. at pp. 298-299.) in reversing the conviction because the defendant had not been advised of his constitutional rights, the farwell court concluded the the stipulated facts as true and completely id. at pp. 299-300.) unlike farwell, the trial court instructed the jury the people must prove beyond a reasonable doubt the elements necessary for a conviction of resisting, obstructing, or delaying a peace officer in the performance of his duties. moreover, the court instructed the jury, statements and closing statements, the attorneys discuss the case, tantamount to a guilty plea. (people v. cain (1995) 10 cal.4th 1, 30 contest, and even expressly to concede, guilt on one or more charges at the guilt phase of a capital trial is not tantamount to a guilty plea requiring a . . . 22 whether the defendant agrees concession, at least where, as here, there is no explicit indication people v. burns (2019) 38 cal.app.5th had to present competent evidence to establish the essential elements of each charge, something it would not have had to do had people v. marsh (2019) 37 cal.app.5th 474, 4people v. lopez (2019) 31 cal.app.5th 55, 63-ssion of guilt during argument on the hit-and-run charge was tantamount to to prove guilt on all counts beyond a reasonable doubt and that 3. the right his sixth amendment right to counsel recognized in mccoy v. louisiana (2018) 584 u.s. ___ [138 s.ct. 1500] (mccoy). in mccoy, the uniid. at p. ___ [138 s.ct. at p. 1510].) 23 id. at pp. ___ [138 s.ct. at p. his criminal acts, his lawyer must abide by that objective and may not id. at p. ___ [138 s.ct. at p. 1509].) the mccoy court distinguished its prior opinion in florida v. nixon (2004) 543 counsel confers with the defendant and the defendant remains silent, neither approving nor pmccoy, supra, 584 u.s. at p. __ [138 s.ct. at p. 1505].) the court explained there was no sixth amendment violation in nixon mccoy, at p. __ [138 s.ct. at p. 1509].) the mccoy court noted that in contrast to nixon, thus, his counsel could not override his objection. (mccoy, at pp. __ [138 s.ct. at pp. 1505, 1509].) fultz contends his sixth amendment right was violated of guilt on count 3. but unlike mccoy, there is nothing in the record indicating fultz informed his trial counsel of his intent to maintain his innocence on the count for delaying a peace officer. (people v. burns, supra, 38 cal.app.5th at pp. 784-785 [mccoy people v. franks (2019) 35 mccoy makes 24 clear, however, that for a sixth amendment violation to lie, a defendant must make his intention to maintain innocence clear to his counsel, and counsel must override that objective by conceding people v. eddy (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 472, 481 defendant did not agree with the strategy of conceding mansamendment right to counsel. 4. assistance of counsel to prevail on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, a representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient people v. johnson (2016) 62 cal.4th 600, 653 (johnson); accord, people v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 198 (mickel); see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-692.) sheds no light on why we must unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory (people v. caro (2019) 7 cal.5th 463, 488; accord, mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 198 [a reviewing court will reverse a conviction based on ineffective assistance of counsel on direct appeal only if there i25 people v. lopez (2008) 42 cal.4th 960, 972 [claims of ineffective assistance of counsel should be raised on ) that counsels actions fall within the broad range of reasonableness, and afford (mickel, at p. 198; accord, people v. bell (2019) 7 cal.5th 70, 125.) in this case the record does not reflect why defense counsel conceded fultz committed the misdemeanor offense of delaying a peace officer, but there may well have been a tactical reason for doing (people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 446; accord, people v. arredondo (2018) 21 oncession to establish credibility was not ineffective assistance of counsel].) here, deputy nelson testified fultz ran when deputy nelson, who was in uniform, exited his patrol car and asked fultz to talk to him. fultz admitted during his interrogation he ran away from the guilt on the misdemeanor count to gain credibility with the jury was not an incompetent tactical choice. (lucas, at p. understandable that trial counsel . . . adopted a more realistic approach . . . people v. freeman (1994) 8 credibility before the jury, we have repeatedly rejected claims that 26 e. pitchess ruling was not an abuse of discretion 1. fultzpitchess motion on april 16, 2018 fultz filed a pitchess motion pursuant to evidence code section 1043, seeking discovery of detective and dishonesty. at the hearing, the trial court found good cause to conduct an in camera records for bias and dishonesty, including false statements and reports. the court conducted an in camera hearing and found there 2. the trial court properly determined there was no discoverable information examine the records in camera to determine if any information should be disclosed. [citations.] the court may not disclose complaints over five years old, conclusions drawn during an investigation, or facts so remote or irrelevant that their disclosure people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, 424; see evid. code,  1045, subd. (b).) motion for access to law enforcement personnel records is subject to people v. landry (2016) 2 cal.5th 52, 73, quoting people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 330; accord anderson, at p. 391.) fultz requests we review the sealed portion of the record, which includes the transcript of the in camera hearing. the people do not object to the request. fultzcamera review is proper. (people v. anderson, supra, 5 cal.5th at 27 p. the in camera hearing to determine whether the court erroneously people v. hughes, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 330 [conducting independent examination of materials in camera on appeal].) we have reviewed the sealed record. the trial court made a detailed record of what it reviewed. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding there was no discoverable information to disclose to fultz. (see people v. anderson, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 391; people v. winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 424.) f. remand for resentencing is appropriate pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1) fultz contends, the people concede, and we agree remand is appropriate for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the prior serious felony conviction enhancements imposed pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1).9 in 2018 the governor signed into law senate bill no. 1393 (2017-2018 reg. sess.), which went into effect on january 1, 2019. senate bill no. 1393 amended section 1385 by deleting subdivision 9 on remand, the trial court should impose or strike the five-year sentence enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), with respect to counts 1 and 2. (people v. williams (2004) 34 cal.4th 397, 405 [ 667, subd. (a), enhancement must be applied to each indeterminate term of third strike sentence]; people v. misa (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 837, 847 [ 667, subd. (a), enhancement must be applied to both indeterminate and determinate terms]; see people v. minifie (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 1256, 1265 [ 667.5, subd. (b), enhancement applies to both indeterminate and determinate terms].) 28 (b), which prohibited trial courts from exercising discretion strike any prior conviction of a serious felony for purposes of ( 1385, former subd. (b).) senate bill no. 1393 applies retroactively to fultz because his sentence was not final at the time the new law became effective on january 1, 2019. (people v. jones (2019) 32 cal.app.5th 267, 272 [sen. bill no. 1393 applies retroactively]; people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 973 [same]; see in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 744 [absent contrary legislat the amendatory statute lessening punishment becomes effective prior to the date the judgment of conviction becomes final then, in our opinion, it, and not the old statute in effect when the prohibited act was committed, applies. disposition the convictions are affirmed. we reverse the sentence and remand with directions for the trial court to exercise its discretion serious felony convictions pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). feuer, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. segal, j. 