 filed 11/14/19 p. v. kegler ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. verdell kegler, defendant and appellant. b291677 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba456417) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, douglas sortino, judge. affirmed in part and remanded in part. bahar law office and sarvenaz bahar, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, pamela c. hamanaka and lindsay boyd, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 verdell kegler was convicted by jury of four counts: count 1, stalking (pen. code,  646.9, subd. (b));1 count 2, assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(4)); count 3, criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a)); and count 4, simple assault, a misdemeanor ( of evidence that he had a knife when he was arrested. he also challengpeople v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 to strike his prior convictions. finally, appellant contends, and the people concede, that the matter should be remanded to the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike a five-year felony enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). we remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion and otherwise affirm. factual and procedural background2 appellant was charged with four counts related to his conduct toward a woman named michelle whom he met through a mutual friend in about 2015. the counts were based on three incidents in 2017. the 1 unspecified statutory references will be to the penal code. 2 we set forth only sufficient details of the prosecution and defense evidence to provide a background and to address the issues on appeal. the evidence relevant to the issues will be addressed in more detail in the discussion section. 3 prosecutor also presented evidence of three uncharged incidents in 2016.3 i. prosecution evidence a. charged incidents in 2017 1. count 2: march 22, 2017 assault on march 22, 2017, around 11:00 p.m., michelle was at the home of her friend jaide with , s boyfriend, gene, and another friend named kevin. appellant arrived, but michelle did not want him there, so jaide asked him to leave. believing that appellant had left, michelle went to the front porch of the house to wait for a ride. appellant suddenly struck michelle in the face, causing her to fall and hit her head. while she was on the ground, telling her she was getting what she deserved. when michelle went home, her fianc called 911, and she was taken to the hospital, where she received stitches for the wounds on her face. michelle told the police and hospital personnel that appellant had attacked her. 3 the uncharged incidents were admitted as relevant to elements of the state of mind and her sustained fear, and whether the threat was credible. 4 2. count 3: march 25, 2017 criminal threats on march 25, 2017, michelle was on her way to a pharmacy to fill her prescription from the hospital when she stopped to talk to a friend at a homeless encampment. appellant threatened to kill her, pulling out a pocket knife and pointing it toward her. michelle understood the . she was afraid and began crying. michelle ran into a nearby library and called 911. the police officer who responded to the call testified that michelle told him that appellant approached her from behind and grabbed her, causing her to turn around. michelle also told the officer that she knew appellant and that she had a restraining order against him. 3. count 4: april 7, 2017 assault michelle did not recall the april 7 incident and needed to refresh her memory with the police report before testifying. michelle was in bedroom with jaide and gene when appellant arrived. appellant and michelle began arguing, and michelle pepper sprayed him because she thought he was going to hit her. appellant began hitting michelle in the face, and she ran away. michelle called the police and was treated for her injuries. the 911 call was played for the jury. 5 b. uncharged incidents in 2016 1. july 8, 2016 on july 8, 2016, michelle was serving food to homeless people near a library when appellant approached, shouted at her, grabbed her, and walked her to the sidewalk, telling her he would send someone to blow up her house. 2. july 11, 2016 inconsistent with her prior statements. michelle testified that she was visiting her friend marvin in a tent at a homeless encampment when appellant walked into the tent and hit michelle and marvin. the police officer testified that michelle had told the police that appellant held her at knife point. at trial, she acknowledged that she also had a knife with her, but that 3. august 3, 2016 into an argument with appellant. appellant hit michelle and jaide. whether appellant placed a knife against her throat, she testified that he had a knife and threatened repeatedly to kill her. when the police arrested appellant, they found a pocket knife on him and asked michelle if it was the knife she saw. appellant was charged with five counts related to this incident and pled no contest to one count of 6 assault in exchange for dismissal of the other four counts. on october 19, 2016, the trial court issued a protective order requiring him to stay away from michelle. c. introduced evidence that the police found a pocket knife in s pocket when he was arrested on april 11, 2017. ii. defense evidence appellant testified on his own behalf that he and michelle were dating in late 2015 and 2016 and that he bought drugs for her. she did . appellant worked in construction and carried knives and box cutters for his work that he had shown to michelle. after he began spending time with michelle, who used crack cocaine, he started using crack cocaine and eventually lost his job because of his drug use. gene and kevin appellant denied threatening or assaulting michelle or using a knife during any of the 2016 uncharged incidents, instead stating that michelle became belligerent if she did not get her way and if he did not have drugs for her. he pled no contest to the assault charge in october 2016 in order to be released from jail. after his release, he tried to avoid michelle because of the protective order, but she sought him out every day and told him she would have him arrested based on the protective order. 7 appellant similarly denied that the charged incidents in 2017 occurred as michelle and the other witnesses testified. for example, he testified that kevin was the one who hit michelle and knocked her to the ground on march 22, 2017. he denied threatening michelle with a knife on march 25, 2017 or striking her on april 7, 2017. iii. procedural background the jury found appellant guilty of count 1, stalking; count 2, assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury; count 3, criminal threats; and count 4, simple assault. the jury found true the allegation as to count 2 that appellant personally inflicted great bodily injury on michelle ( 12022.7, subd. (a)), and the allegation as to count 3 that he personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a knife ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). romero motion. appellant was sentenced to a total of 96 years. as to count 2, the court imposed an indeterminate term of life imprisonment with a minimum term of 27 years, based on the high term of four years, plus three years for the great bodily injury allegation, plus four five-year prior conviction enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a). the court also imposed a consecutive determinate term of 23 years on count 2, based on four five-year priors, plus three years for the great bodily injury allegation. as to count 3, the court imposed a third strike sentence of 25 years to life, plus one year for the knife allegation, plus 20 years for the four five-year enhancements, to run consecutively. the court stayed 8 the sentence on count 1 under section 654 and imposed a 180-day sentence on count 4. discussion appellant raises three issues on appeal. first, he contends the trial court erred in admitting evidence of the knife recovered from him when he was arrested. second, he contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his romero motion. (romero, supra, 13 cal.4th 497.) third, appellant contends that the matter should be remanded for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike a five-year felony enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). i. admission of knife evidence appellant contends the trial court violated his right to due process by admitting evidence of the knife found on him when he was arrested. he argues that the trial court applied an incorrect legal standard in determining that the knife was relevant. ion of evidence are reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. chism (2014) id. at p. 1295, fn. 12.) we find no abuse of discretion.4 4 novo, not for an abuse of discretion. we disagree. the abuse of discretion standard of review for the admission of evidence is well-established. (see people v. sanchez (2019) 7 cal.5th 14, 54 (sanchez) 9 a. relevant procedural background 1. preliminary hearing testimony michelle testified at the preliminary hearing that appellant used a knife against her on march 25, 2017. she testified that the knife was a pocket knife but that she had seen him with pocket knives multiple times, so she was not sure if she had seen this exact knife previously. the knife was a folding knife, and she saw him open it. she testified that appellant had pulled a knife on her four or five times before and threatened to kill her numerous times. michelle stated that appellant size, the same everything, just different colors. [] . . . [] or shapes 2. pretrial proceedings the prosecutor sought to introduce into evidence the knife the officers found when they arrested appellant on april 11, 2017. the prosecutor he further argued that michelle would testify to a prior incident in 2016 when appellant threatened her with a knife, and appellant was arrested at that time with a knife. that she has seen him with knives on multiple occasions is going to broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence and in assessing whether concerns of undue prejudice, confusion, or consumption of time 10 come in, because it goes to the extent of the fear, and part of the corpus of the crime. so the fact that he later has the knife in his possession . . . is still circumstantial evidence to corroborate he had a knife in his . defense counsel objected on the that appellant was arrested more than two weeks after the incident. the trial court admitted the knife, reasoning as follows: a person is found in possession with something roughly consistent with what is described by the victim, a . . about 16, 17 days between the incident and his arrest, it would be relevant. any delay of time and discrepancies of description would go to weight and not admissibility. additionally, the act of carrying a pocketknife is not so inherently prejudicial. a lot of people carry knives. . . . corroborates her testimony that she often sees him with a knife which isobviously goes to her sustained level of fear for the 422, it corroborates her general testimony about the way he carries a knife. [] . . . [] its probative value outweighs the prejudicial effect. . . . [b]ased upon the general description it could be the knife used against her in , exclude it was the weapon on that day, it corroborates her testimony about the earlier incident where he was carrying a knife. 11 3. trial testimony as to the march 25 incident, michelle testified that she was going me iand threatened to kill her. attention to [the knife] that much, but it was a knife. i seen when he the prosecutor showed michelle the knife for the first time after her direct and cross-examination, outside the presence of the jury. he asked [] . . . [] when asked how certain she was that it was the knife appellant used when he certain. on redirect, the prosecutor showed michelle the knife and asked if she recognized it. and that it looked similar to the object she saw in his hand on march 25, 2017. b. discussion prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the code,  210.) the trial court has (people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 490 (scott).) 12 t may exclude otherwise relevant evidence when its probative value is substantially outweighed by concerns of undue as contemplated by [evidence code] section 352 is not so sweeping as to include any evidence the opponent finds inconvenient. evidence is not prejudicial, as that term is used in a section 352 context, merely proponent. the ability to do so is what makes evidence relevant. the code speaks in terms of undue prejudice. unless the dangers of undue probative value of relevant evidence, a section 352 objection should fail. [citatapplies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect scott, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 490-491.) appellant contends that the knife found on appellant when he was time . . . had lapsed between the incident on march 25, 2017 and description of the knife that was used against her was too vague and the knife described too commonplace to allow for a meaningful we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the evidence. 13 appellant relies on people v. riser (1956) 47 cal.2d 566 (riser), overruled in part on other grounds by people v. morse (1964) 60 cal.2d 631, to argue that the knife was inadmissible because it was bad character evidence. the trial court did not admit the knife as evidence found that the evidence was relevant to the criminal threats charge because it supported the element of mithat appellant often carried a knife. the court also reasoned that the knife was relevant because its description was consistent with of the knife appellant used in the march 25 incident, and it was found only 16 to 17 days after the incident. in addition the court considered whether the evidence was too prejudicial, concluding that simply carrying a pocket knife is not inherently prejudicial because many people do so. we agree with the trial court. the criminal threats charge required the prosecution to establish, among other elements, that actually caused to be in sustained fear for . . . her own safety under the circumstances. (people v. fruits (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 188, 203-204, fn. 8.) as the trial court reasoned, the knife corroborated carried a knife, which supports the elements that she was actually in fear and that her fear was reasonable. (see people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1249 (prince) ons shown by the evidence to have been involved in other charged crimes. they did not 14 moreover, the facts of riser are distinguishable from those presented here. there, the prosecution introduced evidence that the defendant possessed a weapon that could not have been the one used in sanchez, supra, 7 cal.5th at p. 55.) only purpose of admitting the evidence would be to demonstrate that the defendant iprince, supra, 40 cal.4th at pp. 1248-1249.) by contrast, the knife easily have been sanchez, supra, 7 cal.5th at p. 55.) in sanchez, the court shortly before the murders defendant possessed a firearm that could have been the murder weapon was similarly relevant and admissible as circumstantial evidence that he committed the murders. . . . [w]e see no abuse of discretion in not excluding the evidence as unduly id. at p. 56.) similar to sanchez, the knife admitted here was relevant as circumstantial evidence that appellant committed the criminal threats, and it was not unduly prejudicial. (see also people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, defendant habitually carried may have been the same type of weapon circumstantial evidence the jury can use to determine whether the case is proven that this appellant also argues that there must be expert testimony that the weapon could have been the weapon used to commit the crime. 15 however, the cases on which he relies do not require expert testimony in order to find the evidence admissible. for example, in people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107 (farnam), the court stated that, two months after the . . . crimes, coupled with the evidence that the perpetrator of the . . . crimes tended to estid. at p. 156.) the court did not hold that expert testimony was a prerequisite to the the reason an expert did testify in farnam was to used to cut the ibid.) similarly, in people v. mills (2010) 48 cal.4th 158 (mills), the court stated that, [b]ecause defendant was accused of killing the victim by cutting her throat and shortly after the crime was found in possession of several cutting devices, any one of which could have been the murder weapon, the trial court acted within its discretion in finding the evidence to be relevantid. at p. 197.) although an expert testified that knives found by the police could have been used to cause the fatal wounds, the court did not hold that expert testimony was required for the weapon to be admissible. (see also people v. cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 916, 957, overruled in part on other grounds by people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390 [concluding that guns were admissible weapons that could have been used to coerce the victims into 16 testimony].) in contrast to the cases cited by appellant, there was no need here to present evidence regarding whether the knife could have been used to cut telephone cords (farnam, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 156) or to cause a certain type of injury (mills, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 197). the only question was whether it could have been the knife appellant brandished when he threatened michelle. no expert testimony was required. we also find no merit to are, in essence, ppellant makes much of the fact that michelle was placed in custody for contempt of court for failing to come to court to testify at the trial. he points out thplaced in custody. he also states that, when she was shown the knife testimony took longer than one day. testimony regarding her recollection of the events and her reluctance to testify raise questions of her credibility, a determination clearly within people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585 do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and 17 appellant opening and closing arguments about michelle, supposedly establishing that michelle was not credible. however, appellant has taken the arguments about why the jury should believe michelle. it is true that the pros appellant particularly points probably not the person that the law had in mind when [it] says the testimony of a single witness can prove any fact beyond a reasonable these charges were proved beyond a reasonable doubt on miword . . . however, despite these isolated statements, the prosecutor outlined in detail why the jury should find michelle credible, citing the lack of a motive for michelle to lie, photographs of her injuries, the testimony of numerous other witnesses, and the 911 calls. the prosecutor also summarized the evidence he expected the jury to hearsuch as photographs, 911 calls, and the testimony of other witnessessupporting the charges against appellant. contrary to the these comments were simply argument. the determination even if the jury found that michelle was not credible, the 18 charges. to the contrary, the prosecutor presented numerous , jaide, cary, gene, kevin, and witnesses who testified about a telephone call appellant placed while imprisoned. the prosecutor also introduced testimony by the police officers, detectives and hospital staff who were involved. all of these credibility determinations were within the purview of the jury. ii. denial of romero motion appellant contends we should remand the matter because the trial court abused its discretion in denying his romero motion. we disagree. under section 1385, subdivision (a), and in furtherance of justice, a trial court may strike a prior felony conviction allegation under the three strikes law. (romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at pp. 529530.) in . . must consider whether, in light of the nature and s] present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be deemed outsids spirit, in whole or in part, and hence should be treated as though he had not previously been convicted (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 377 (carmony).) our review is for an abuse of discretion. (id. at p. 375.) discretion unless its decision is so irrational or arbitrary that no (id. at p. 377.) 19 s romero motion, the trial court stated that it was familiar with all the facts and circumstances of the case, including the probation report. the court acknowledged that appellant out of prison. [] at the same timespirit of the three strikes law. he stands convicted of very serious the court he had already victimized and been found guilty of victimizing her for which he was on probation at the time he decided to commit the [victim], and engages in a series of attacks on her which were incredibly [] [t]he incidents themselves have the threat of great violence. . . . his prior performance on probation or parole has been bad. whenever he is out of prison, it seems like he violates with a violation or picks up a new case and gets out of the penal system from 1977 to the present, and whenever he has an opportunity, he offends. the court acknowledged the defense argument that many and circumstances of the presethe time when he commits this offense for assault on the same victim. nine separate robberies in four separate cases; two counts involving a gun, one involving a weapon. they are serious, serious crimes. [] i 20 think in some ways the only thing he has going for him in terms of mitigation is his age, because i do feel badly about locking somebody up essentially for the rest of their but at the his criminal history and the facts and circumstances of this particular offense, i think it would be an abuse of discretion to strike the strikes in this case. . . . the spirit of the three strikes l the record indicates that the court carefully considered in light of the present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects,spirit of the three strikes law. (carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 377.) romero motion was not an abuse of discretion. iii. remand for trial court to exercise its discretion under the versions of section 667, subdivision (a) and section 1385, subdivision (b) in effect when appellant was sentenced, the court was required to impose a five-convicted of a serious felony who previously has been convicted of a 667, subd. (a)strike any prior conviction of a serious felony for purposes of ( 1385, subd. (b) (effective january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2018.) on september 30, 2018, while this appeal was pending, the governor signed senate bill 21 no. 1393, amending section 667, subdivision (a) and section 1385, subdivision (b) to allow a court to exercise its discretion whether to strike or dismiss a prior serious felony conviction for sentencing purposes. (people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 971.) the amendmeits effective date. (id. at p. 973.) the matter accordingly must be remanded to the trial court for resentencing pursuant to senate bill no. 1393. (ibid.) disposition the matter is remanded to the trial court for it to exercise its discretion to resentence appellant pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a) and 1385, subdivision (b), as amended by senate bill no. 1393. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: collins, j. currey, j. 