filed 9/6/19 p. v. waldron ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert steven waldron, jr., defendant and appellant. b292677 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba455143) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. henry j. hall, judge. affirmed. william j. capriola, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 a jury convicted robert waldron of attempted voluntary manslaughter. on appeal, he contends the prosecutor engaged in misconduct during closing argument by misrepresenting the evidence and vouching for a witness. we disagree and affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background on november 7, 2016, waldron and danny g. had an argument, after which several men attacked waldron while danny watched. later that day, danny was stabbed repeatedly, including in his head, shoulder, and abdomen. nearby surveillance cameras captured video of a man resembling waldron attacking danny. los angeles police department detectives michael zolezzi and vincent carreon interviewed danny after the stabbing. carreon asked danny danny subsequent interview with police, waldron denied that he stabbed danny waldron was charged by information with attempted willful, deliberate, and premediated murder (pen. code,  664, 187, subd. (a)). it was further alleged that in the commission of the offense, waldron personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon (pen. code,  12022, subd. (b)(1)), and personally inflicted great bodily injury on the victim (pen. code,  12022.7, subd. (a)). at trial, danny testified that he could not remember who stabbed him. he also could not remember having a fight with waldron on november 7, 2016. danny acknowledged he was affiliated with the big hazard gang. 3 when asked by defense counsel why he did not videotape the interview with danny, detective zolezzi testified that he does answers are they saw a waldron called as a witness dana orent, who is a private criminal investigator and former detective. orent testified that it police and then . . . say something different when they come to testify truthfully in cour the jury convicted waldron of the lesser included offense of attempted voluntary manslaughter and found true the allegations that he personally used a deadly weapon and personally inflicted great bodily injury on the victim. the court sentenced waldron to seven years in prison, consisting of the midterm of three years, plus one year for using a deadly weapon and three years for inflicting great bodily injury. the court also imposed various fines and fees, and awarded waldron 644 days of custody credit. waldron timely appealed. discussion engaged in misconduct when he made the following statements during closing argument in the context of explaining 4 discrepancies between dannyony and his statement gang affiliated, they usually tell the truth when you talk to them privately. when they come to court is when they change their things in court that they say in private. even the defense ents misrepresented the evidence and constituted improper vouching. we disagree. initially, waldron forfeited these claims by failing to object the jury to disregard them. (see people v. thornton (2007) 41 prosecutorial misconduct unless in a timely fashion, and on the same ground, the defendant objected to the action and also requested that the jury be admonished to disregard the perceived s remarks were not so outrageous or inherently prejudicial that an admonition could not have cured any harm. (see people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 521.) nonetheless, we will address the merits of his arguments in order to forestall his derivative ineffective assistance of counsel claim. there is simply represented the evidence. settled that a prosecutor is given wide latitude during argument. the argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include reasonable (people v. sassounian (1986) 182 cal.app.3d 361, 396; see people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 230 [prosecutors enjoy wide latitude in 5 commenting on the evidence].) here, a reasonable inference from witnesses affiliated with gangs commonly tell the truth to the be reasonablremarks, therefore, did not misrepresent the evidence. that the prosecutor improperly vouched for dannyimplying that he told the truth to the detectives. a prosecutor explicitly or implicitly referring to matters outside the trial record bolstering the persons testimony. (people v. turner (2004) 34 cal.4th 406, 432433.) here, the prosecutor did not suggest he had other evidence, not presented to the jury, that would bolster dannys credibility. rather, his comments referred specificalltrial testimony and inferences that could be drawn from that testimony. the prosecutor did not vouch for danny.1 1 counsel was ineffective for failing to object to them on that basis. (see people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 587 ounsel is not required to proffer futile people v. price (1991) 1 by failing to make motions or objections that counsel reasonably 6 disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: stratton, j. wiley, j. 