 filed 11/21/19 p. v. castaneda ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joel castaneda, defendant and appellant. b292848 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la047078) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael k. kellogg, judge. affirmed. peter gold, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, taylor nguyen and herbert s. tetef, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 this is the latest appeal in a case that began with joel castanedas 2006 initial (and reversed) convictions of first degree murder (pen. code,  187) and attempted premeditated murder ( 664 & 187). it arises from the trial courts 2018 denial of appellants motion for disclosure of juror identifying information, originally filed following his re-conviction in 2011. appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying the motion. appellant further contends that people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157 (dueas) requires a remand to allow him to request a hearing on his ability to pay fees and assessments imposed by the trial court. the motion does not present facts sufficient to establish good cause to release juror personal identifying information and we see no abuse of discretion in the trial courts denial of the motion. appellant has forfeited his dueas claim. we affirm the judgment of conviction. background appellant committed the crimes in this case in 2004, when he was 18 years old.1 in 2006, he was convicted, but we reversed those convictions on appeal. in 2009, appellant was retried, but the jury deadlocked. in 2011, he was tried for a third time and again convicted. in 2013, we reversed the trial courts denial of appellants new trial motion and motion for disclosure of juror 1 in a petition for writ of habeas corpus filed while this appeal was pending, appellant contends his counsel was ineffective for failing to request a hearing pursuant to people v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261. on may 24, 2019, we ordered that petition (b297736) be considered (but not consolidated) with this appeal. we will rule on the petition by separate order. 3 identifying information, and remanded for a new hearing on those motions and a new sentencing hearing. in 2018, the trial court again denied appellants new trial motion. the trial court struck the penal code section 12022.53 firearm enhancements and sentenced appellant to a total term of 25 years to life in state prison. the trial court also imposed various fines and fees. at the 2011 retrial, appellant was represented by retained counsel colleen ohara. in the new trial motion prepared and filed by ohara on appellants behalf, ohara raised a number of grounds for a new trial, including juror misconduct. ohara also filed a motion for disclosure of juror identifying information pursuant to code of civil procedure section 2372 (the disclosure motion). this exact disclosure motion is the subject of this appeal. ohara identified three instances of potential juror misconduct: (1) a statement during trial by a juror that indicated prejudgment of the case and statements by some jurors at the outset of deliberations that indicated prejudgment of the case; (2) coercion of four jurors which resulted in their changing their votes from not guilty to guilty; and (3) concealment of information during voir dire by juror no. 9, which was revealed during deliberations. ohara personally heard the remark made during trial. she relied on post-verdict statements made in the courtroom by juror no. 1 to establish the other instances of potential misconduct. ohara filed a declaration in support of the 2 further undesignated statutory references are to the code of civil procedure. 4 disclosure motion, but it 3 the prosecutor filed an opposition to the new trial motion which also included arguments in opposition to the disclosure motion. the prosecutor also contended that although two jurors remained in the courtroom after the verdict to speak to both counsel, juror no. 1 was not one of the two who stayed. the prosecutor indicated that he did not hear a remark by any of the two jurors about concealment of information during voir dire. regarding the allegation that one juror indicated some jurors were coerced by being shouted down, the prosecutor directly d the prosecutor did not file a declaration to support these factual claims. in 2011, the trial court decided the disclosure motion at the hearing on the new trial motion. although initially represented by ohara at the hearing, appellant discharged her and represented himself for much of the 2011 hearing on the motions. in 2011, after a two-day hearing, the trial court denied the request for juror personal identifying information and denied the motion for a new trial in its entirety. appellant appealed, and in 2013 we reversed the trial courts order based on violations of appellants right to counsel during the proceedings on the new trial motion. we found that the denial of right to counsel issues affected the separate 3 she filed an identical motion in support of the new trial motion. 5 following our 2013 remand, appellant relied on the 2011 motion for disclosure of juror information, and on the juror misconduct section of the 2011 new trial motion, and the declarations attached thereto. appellant was represented on remand by carlo spiga. spiga did not discuss the issue of jury , also, with respect to all the other issues in the motion for a new trial that was filed by miss ohara, whether i argue them or not, if they have not been previously dealt with by the court of appeal and if i don the i think, were thoroughly argued in [prosecutor] mr. harmons ultimately, the court denied the new trial motion without specifically addressing the jury misconduct claims or the disclosure motion. discussion i. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying the disclosure motion. after a verdict is recorded in a criminal case, an attorney may petition the court for access to jurors sealed personal identifying information for the purpose of developing a motion ( 206, subd. (g).) a by a declaration that includes facts sufficient to establish good cause for the release of the jurors personal identifying  237, subd. (b).) 6 to demonstrate good cause under section 237 based on juror misconduct, a defendant must set forth a sufficient showing to support a reasonable belief that misconduct occurred and that further investigation is necessary to provide the court with adequate information to rule on a motion for a new trial. (people v. munoz (2019) 31 cal.app.5th 143, 165.) the alleged misconduct must be of such character as is likely to have influenced the verdict. (people v. jefflo (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 1314, 1322.) there is no good cause where the allegations of misconduct are speculative, conclusory, vague or unsupported. (munoz, at p.165.) evidence code section 1150, subdivision (a) provides: admissible evidence may be received as to statements made, or conduct, conditions, or events occurring, either within or without the jury room, of such a character as is likely to have influenced the verdict improperly. no evidence is admissible to show the effect of such statement, conduct, condition, or event upon a juror either in influencing him to assent to or dissent from the verdict or concerning the mental processes by which it was det between proof of overt acts, objectively ascertainable, and proof of the subjective reasoning processes of the individual juror, which can be neither corroborated nor disproved . . . . [citation.] tation prevents one juror from upsetting a verdict of the whole jury by impugning his own or his fellow jurors mental processes or (people v. danks (2004) 32 cal.4th 269, 302 (danks).) 7 the only improper influences that may be proved under [evidence code] section 1150 to impeach a verdict, therefore, are those open to sight, hearing, and the other senses and thus subject to corroboration. (danks, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 302.) n]o evidence is admissible to show the [actual] effect of such statement, conduct, condition, or event upon a juror . . . or concerning the mental processes by which [the verdict] was determined. in re hamilton (1999) 20 cal.4th 273, 294.) thus, where a verdict is attacked for juror taint, the focus is on whether there is any overt event or circumstance, open to [corroboration by] sight, hearing, and the other senses [citation], which suggests a likelihood that one or more members of the jury were influenced by improper bias.ibid.) we review the trial courts ruling on a motion for disclosure of juror identifying information for an abuse of discretion. (people v. johnson (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 486, 492 (johnson).) a. counsels declaration was inadequate. section 237 requires a disclosure motion to be supported by cause for the release of the jurors personal identifying declarations in support of a motion for disclosure may be made on information and belief; it need not be based on personal knowledge. (johnson, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 493.) even under this relaxed standard, oharas 2011 declaration was wholly deficient to establish good cause, and this deficiency was not remedied on remand. in the motion is meaningless here where the motion itself does not clearly distinguish between facts, inferences and argument, or between what ohara directly observed and what she was told. 8 to give just one example, juror number 9 lost credibility with the other jurors after he told them for the first time during deliberations that he had considered becoming a is this counsels opinion or a statement by juror no. 1? for this reason alone, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying the disclosure motion. however, considering the claims on the merits as well, we see no abuse of discretion. b. the jurors statements do not show prejudgment. a trial court is required to admonish the jurors not to form or express any opinion about the case until the cause is finally submitted to them, [so] a juror who prejudges a case and people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1194.) urors are allowed to reflect about the case during the trial and at home. [citation.] in fact, it is unrealistic to expect them not to do so(id. at p. 1195.) appellant contends there were two instances of prejudgment shown by juror no. 1s statement, one in open court during the defense case and one in the jury room at the very outset of deliberations. neither statement is sufficient to support a reasonable belief that prejudgment occurred. 1. the statement during trial does not indicate prejudgment of the case. the disclosure motion states that during the defense case, when either octavio cortez or patricia ruiz was testifying, ohara asked for a sidebar concerning the witnesss dishonesty in claiming a lack of memory. as she got up, she heard an s trying to find some appellant 9 told counsel he had heard the same statement. according to ohara, the bailiff told appellant she had heard the same statement. the motion does not indicate whether appellant and/or the bailiff heard laughter.4 appellant contended that this statement showed prejudgment of the case and that the laughter could signify the other jurors agreement with the sentiment. we do not agree. this statement is far from the unequivocal references to guilt found in the cases cited by appellant. (in re hitchings (1993) 6 cal.4th 97, 113 [allegations that before individual was picked as a juror s would show prejudgment]; people v. brown (1976) 61 cal.app.3d 476, 479 (brown) [juror statement during h]e is guilty t]here is no doubt about it proper prejudgment]; deward v. clough (1966) 245 cal.app.2d 439, 443 [prejudgment when juror i dont see why they dont open up the jury room now. we could bring in a verdict already ].) taken in context, the remark in this case is most reasonably understood as referring to the defense witnesses evasive testimony, and defense counsels use of the witnesses 4 although not determinative of our decision, we note that re back in the hallway again doing a sidebar and the jury was grumbling. its obvious theyre getting upset with the fact that were handling so s get it to the jury before we hear more moans and groans when we the court did not mention any laughter. this suggests that ohara may have misinterpreted the jurys reaction. 10 prior statements to refresh their recollection and when that failed, to provide substantive evidence.5 this was an indirect and time-consuming process. thus, regardless of whether the jurors comment was made during cortezs examination or ruizs, that comment is most reasonably understood as referring to counsels difficulty in getting cortes or ruiz to offer any substantive testimony. it is not reasonably understood as showing prejudgment about appellants guilt or innocence, or even about the overall strength of the defense case. 2. it is not misconduct for a juror to express an opinion on guilt early in deliberation. the disclosure motion states: deliberation process, juror number 1 said that many of the jurors announced that it would have to be a guilty verdict, before presumably the that this was a statement by juror no. 1, but it is not clear who t clear what the speaker meant by those phrases. the statement seems to indicate that the jurors were in the jury room for the purpose of deliberating. thus, the jurors statements about guilt would seem to be the beginning of a substantive discussion of the case. there is no requirement that jurors discuss specific pieces of evidence or issues of law before discussing their opinions on guilt 5 the trial court found the witnesses continued claim of a lack of recall was feigned. 11 or innocence. simply holding and expressing an opinion about guilt or innocence at the start of deliberations is not misconduct.6 juror who forms an opinion regarding the strength of the prosecutions case before the start of deliberations has not necessarily prejudged the case. as this court recently explained, [t]he reality that a juror may hold an opinion at the outset of deliberations is . . . reflective of human nature. it is certainly not unheard of that a foreperson may actually take a vote as deliberations begin to acquire an early sense of how jurors are leaning. we cannot reasonably expect a juror to enter deliberations as a tabula rasa, only allowed to form ideas as conversations continue. what we can, and do, require is that each juror maintain an open mind, consider all the evidence, and subject any preliminary opinion to rational and collegial scrutiny before coming to a final determination. (people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 101.) the statement in the disclosure motion does not show anything more than some form of early polling or discussion of opinions on the ultimate question in the case. that is not improper. 6 appellant has not cited any cases finding prejudgment based on a jurors expression of opinion at the outset of deliberations. the cases cited by appellant all involve statements made before trial or while trial was still ongoing. (in re hitchings, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 113 [statement made before individual was picked as a juror]; brown, supra, 61 cal.app.3d at p. 479 [juror statement during prosecution case]; deward v. clough, supra, 245 cal.app.2d at p. 443 [juror statement on last day of trial].) 12 c. shouting and screaming is not misconduct. the motion states juror no. jurors were horrified and screamed at juror number 9 and changed his vote after being screamed at by his fellow jurors. number 1 told me that he and other jurors had shouted them down until they changed their vote7 these descriptions are not sufficient to support a reasonable belief that juror misconduct in the form of coercion occurred. without committing misconduct, may disagree during deliberations and may express themselves vigorously and even harshly: [j]urors can be expected to disagree, even vehemently, and to attempt to persuade disagreeing fellow jurors by strenuous and sometimes heated means. [citation.] during deliberations, expressions of frustration, temper, and strong conviction may be anticipated but, in the interest of free expression in the jury room, such expressions normally should people v. engelman (2002) 28 cal.4th 436, 446; see people v. keenan (1988) 46 cal.3d 478, 541 threat occurred, we must conclude as a matter of law that it was not prejudicial misconduct which impeaches the verdict. the outburst described in [the] declarations was particularly harsh and inappropriate, but as the trial court suggested, no reasonable juror could have taken it 7 to the extent appellant contends that the 2011 disclosure motion shows that juror no. is mistaken. 13 literally. manifestly, the alleged death threat was but an expression of frustration, temper, and strong conviction against the contrary views of anot.) appellants reliance on people v. gainer (1977) 19 cal.3d 835 to show error is misplaced. that case concerns the effect of an allen-type8 instruction directed at minority jurors on a deadlocked jury. (id. at pp. 848849.) as for appellants reliance on state v. vergilio (n.j. super. ct. app. div. 1994) 261 n.j. super. 648 [619 a.2d 671]), it goes without saying that this case vergilio are significantly different than the facts in this case. d. juror no. 9s nondisclosure did not conceal bias and so could not amount to prejudicial misconduct that during deliberations, juror number 9 told the other jurors that he did not believe that [appellants] former interest in becoming a gang member meant that he was a gang member at the time of the shooting. juror number 9 said that he had this opinion because he himself had considered becoming a gang hara argued that this statement showed that juror no. the voir dire process. [the prosecutor] and i asked many gang-related questions and juror number 9 never disclose that he had considered joining a gang at one point iappellant does not contend that jurors were specifically asked if they had ever considered joining a gang. he claims that juror no. 9 should have volunteered this information in response to the prosecutors that you think right now 8 allen v. united states (1896) 164 u.s. 492. 14 that is going to cause you to not be fair to one of the sides, we support a reasonable belief that juror no. 9 committed misconduct by failing to disclose to the court and counsel that he once considered joining a gang. a juror who conceals relevant facts or gives false answers during voir dire commits misconduct. (in re hitchings, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 111.) however, an honest mistake on voir dire cannot disturb a judgment in the absence of proof that the jurors wrong or incomplete answer hid the jurors actual bias. (in re cowan (2018) 5 cal.5th 235, 248.) the test for prejudice asks not whether the juror would have been stricken by one of the parties, but whether the jurors concealment (or nondisclosure) evidences bias. (ibid.) during voir dire, in response to the prosecutors statement to cause you to be not be fair to one of the sides, we need to know no. 9 volunteered that his son had been approached by gang members to join their gang, and the son was attacked and harassed when he said no. juror no. 9 had earlier recounted that one of his nephews had been shot and killed in 2007 and he believed it was gang-related. ohara described juror no. 9 in this context, it would be unreasonable to conclude that juror no. 9 deliberately concealed the information that he had considered but rejected the idea of joining a gang when he was young. juror no. 9 ultimately rejected gang membership, which shows an unfavorable attitude towards gangs. it is consistent with his other express statements and experience, and reinforces 15 that the juror lived in an environment where gangs were an unavoidable part of his daily life. there was no reason for him to conceal his thoughts. thus, the most reasonable interpretation of his failure to bring up this topic is that he did not remember it or think it responsive to the questions. counsel posits a different test for prejudice, arguing that if juror no. 9 had made his nondisclosure during voir dire, the other jurors would have had time to get used to it. she speculates of learning this information during this is not the test for prejudicial misconduct based on concealment of information. further, the causal link is speculative in light of juror no. 1s statement that at the time of the disclosure a total of 4 jurors, including juror no. 9, wanted to vote not guilty, and the other jurors yelled at all of them until the 4 changed their votes to guilty.9 9 in two footnotes in his briefing appellant argues he wanted juror identifying information to follow up on one jurors statement that defense counsels cross-examination of trial witnesses was he asserts, without citation to authority, that any negative juror reaction to her style of inquiry or her performance would support a claim for ineffective assistance of counsel. our supreme court has explained that in appropriate circumstances trial courts should consider a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel in a new trial motion because justice is expedited when the issue can be resolved promptly at the trial level. (people v. cornwell (2005) 37 cal.4th 50, 101, overruled on other grounds by people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) appropriate circumstances occur when the courts own observation of the trial would supply a basis for the court to act expeditiously on the motion. if the court is able to 16 ii. appellant has forfeited his dueas claim. appellant contends a remand is necessary under dueas to give him the opportunity to request a hearing on his ability to an $80 fee (pen. code,  1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), a $60 assessment (gov. code,  70373), and a $500 restitution fine (pen. code,  1202.4, subd. (b)). respondent contends appellant has forfeited this claim by failing to request a hearing in the trial court. appellant replies that dueas was decided after he was sentenced in this case, and so he did not forfeit this claim. as we previously explained in people v. frandsen (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 1126, 11541155: dueas was foreseeable. dueas herself foresaw it. the dueas opinion applied the griffin-antazo-bearden analysis, which flowed from griffin v. illinois (1956) 351 u.s. 12 [100 l.ed. 891, 76 s.ct. 585], in re antazo (1970) 3 cal.3d 100 [89 cal.rptr. 255, 473 p.2d 999], and bearden v. georgia (1983) 461 u.s. 660 [76 l.ed.2d 221, determine the effectiveness issue on such motion, it should do so. (ibid; see also people v. watts (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 102, 117-118.) here the trial court expressed its confidence in the quality of oharaafter trial that he wanted to discharge her. that observation supports denial of the claim of ineffective assistance of counsel as raised in the new trial motion. as for the motion seeking juror personal identifying information, that one or more jurors may have disliked her style of inquiry or manner of performance is not sufficient, standing alone, to establish ineffective assistance of counsel. ordinarily defense counsels particular style of defense is not a basis for a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. (people v. mcdermott (2002) 28 cal.4th 946, 993 [the manner of cross-examination is within counsels discretion and rarely implicates ineffective assistance of counsel].) 17 103 s.ct. 2064]. (dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at p. 1168.) the dueas opinion likewise observed award must be considered in light of the defendants financial condition is [citation.] the magna carta prohibited civil sanctions that were disproportionate to the offense or that would deprive the wrongdoer of his means of livelihood. [citation.] (dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at p. 1170.) [] dueas applied law that was old, not new. we therefore stand by the traditional and prudential virtue of requiring parties to raise an issue in the trial court if they would like appellate review of that issue. we also agree with our colleagues in the first district court of appeal that when the record shows that a defendant had some past income-earning capacity, [and] going forward we know he will have the ability to earn prison wages over a sustained periodany error in the denial of a hearing on ability to pay is harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. johnson (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 134, 139140 [$370 in fines and fees could be repaid over eight-year prison sentence].) that is the situation here. 18 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports stratton, j. i concur: wiley, j. people v. castaneda b292848 bigelow, p.j., concurring: i concur. i write separately to add that i believe the imposition of the assessments and restitution fine did not violate people v. hicks (2019) 40 cal.app.5th 320. bigelow, p. j. 