 filed 8/28/19 p. v. kincherlow ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert lewis kincherlow, defendant and appellant. b292642 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma073837) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, shannon knight, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part. rudolph j. alejo, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, yun lee, deputy attorney 2 general, peggy z. huang, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ the jury found defendant and appellant robert lewis kincherlow1 guilty of assault with a firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2) [count 2]),2 and found true the allegation that kincherlow personally used a firearm in that count ( 12022.5). it also found kincherlow guilty of felon in possession of a firearm ( 29800, subd. (a)(1) [count 5]) and two counts of negligent discharge of a firearm ( 246.3, subd. (a) [counts 6 and 7]).3 the trial court sentenced kincherlow to a total of eight years eight months in prison as follows: the high term of four years in count 2, plus four years for the gun use enhancement, plus eight months (one-third the middle term of two years) in count 5. in counts 6 and 7, the trial court imposed terms of two years each, to be served concurrently. on appeal, kincherlow argues that the trial court erred by failing to: (1) instruct on unanimity with respect to the 1 although the parties refer to appellant as last name is kincherlow, and we use that spelling throughout the opinion. 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 counts 1, 3, and 4 were dismissed. 3 assault with a firearm charge in count 2, and (2) stay the sentence in count 7, which is based on the same continuous course of conduct as count 6. to instruct on unanimity in count 2 was prejudicial error. we reverse his conviction for assault with a firearm and the corresponding enhancement for personal gun use, and remand to the trial court for further proceedings. we otherwise affirm the . facts prosecution on may 16, 2018, ther erick was drinking beer with him in front of his house.4 when they began talking about s wife, kincherlow got angry. kincherlow went inside and grabbed a shotgun and began firing into the ground, a nearby trash can, and his own car window. throughout the incident, erick told kincherlow to go inside before neighbors called the police. after kincherlow shot into the car window erick began walking away from the house. erick testified that kincherlow never pointed the gun at him, he was never 4 because kincherlow and his brother share the same last name, we refer to his brother as erick throughout this opinion. 4 afraid of his brother, and he never believed his brother was going to shoot him. j.s. -kincherlow that were unrelated to the shooting incident.5 on the day of the incident, j.s. was in her car with her children when she heard a loud noise like a gunshot. she saw kincherlow pointing what appeared to be a long gun into the air. she heard another gunshot and saw backwards down the driveway away from the house with kincherlow following him. kincherlow pointed the gun at his brother, who repeatedly told him to go back inside. j.s. called the police because she was afraid kincherlow was going to shoot his brother. kincherlow shot the gun again.6 j.s. could not see what kincherlow hit the third time, but it sounded like he shot a car that he was standing about two feet away from, and which was between him and his brother. [h]e shot towards [j.s.] heard a noise, and [she thought] it hit the car instead 5 there was considerable testimony regarding the unrelated incidents between j.s. and kincherlow. the trial court twice instructed the jury that it was to use evidence of these other incidents solely for the purpose of evaluating j.s. the defense called another neighbor, n.j., to impeach j.s.ated incident. 6 j.s.how many shots kincherlow fired before she called police. 5 it appeared to j.s. that kincherlow was trying to shoot his brother because he kept following him. after all the shots were fired, j.s. made a video recording of the incident on her cell phone. the video was played for the jury, and depicts kincherlow moving a rifle between his hands, and arguably pointing the rifle at erick. after recording the incident for a while, j.s. gathered her children and went inside her house. kincherlow and his brother were still outside at the time, and the last time she looked at them kincherlow was still pointing the gun at his brother and looked like he was going to shoot him. the police arrived shortly thereafter.7 los angeles county deputy sheriff elijah goffigan responded to the 911 call. when deputy goffigan arrived, kincherlow was belligerent and appeared intoxicated. deputies eventually detained him in the back of a patrol car. deputy goffigan found a 12-gauge shell casing from a shotgun in the driveway. a second shell casing was recovered near a trash container, and a third shell casing was found by the gutter on the passenger side of a car with a shattered rear window. deputy goffigan discovered a loaded 12-gauge shotgun in living room. a box of 12-gauge shotgun shells and two loose 12-gauge shotgun shells were recovered from the master bedroom. in the first floor bedroom, there were shotgun shells, 45-caliber ammunition, 7 j.s. admitted that she had been caught shoplifting when she was a teenager. she was in her thirties at the time of trial. 6 and loose ammunition inside a prescription bottle with the parties stipulated that kincherlow had suffered a prior felony conviction. defense w.g. was home on the day of the shootings. he heard two shots. he looked outside and saw kincherlow fire about four shots into a trash pile before firing into a car window. w.g. never saw kincherlow point the gun at erick. discussion unanimity instruction kincherlow contends that the trial court committed reversible error by failing to sua sponte instruct the jury on unanimity with respect to the count of assault with a firearm (count 2). the charge was based on kincherlow pointing the gun at erick. kincherlow argues that the jury could have based its verdict on two separate instances of gun-pointing, and it is therefore impossible to know whether its verdict was unanimous as required. the people counter that the gun-pointing was part of the same continuous transaction, such that the jury was not required to rely on a specific act to reach its verdict. we agree that the failure to instruct 7 waassault with a firearm in count 2 and the corresponding enhancement for personal firearm use. legal principles a jury verdict in a criminal case must be unanimous. (people v. russo (2001) 25 cal.4th 1124, 1132.) in addition, the jury must unanimously agree that the defendant is guilty of a specific crime. (ibid.) evidence suggests more than one discrete crime, either the prosecution must elect among the crimes or the court must (ibid.) in the absence of an election, a unanimity instruction is defendant will be convicted even though there is no single offense which al (ibid.) when the acts are so closely connected in time as to form part of one transaction. [citations.] this branch of the defendant tenders the same defense or defenses to each act and if there is no reasonable basis for the jury to distinguish (people v. crandell (1988) 46 cal.3d 833, 875; see also people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th crimes occurring during a single transaction but only to 8 time and place that the jurors reasonably must either accept people v. jenkins (1994) 29 cal.app.4th 287, people v. bui (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 1002, 10101011.) where warranted, the trial court must give the instruction sua sponte. (people v. riel (2000) 22 cal.4th 1153, 1199.) we review independently whether failure to give a unanimity instruction was error. (people v. hernandez (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 559, 568.) reviewing prejudice when the trial court fails to give a (people v. vargas (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 506, 561 (vargas).) some appellate cases hold that the failure to instruct on unanimity is of constitutional dimension and apply the test enunciated in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman), requiring reversal unless the error is harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (see, e.g., people v. melhado (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 1529, 1536.) other cases apply the test from people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson), and hold that a convictiprobable that a result more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in the (vargas, supra, at p. 562, citing watson, supra, at p. 836.) 9 analysis action of pointing the gun at erick formed the factual basis for the assault with a firearm charge, but did not specify which of two instances the charge was based upon.8 j.s. testified that kincherlow pointed the gun at erick before she began recording video with her cell phone and then again later, while she was recording. thus, the evidence supporting the two claimed instances of gun-pointing differed: j.s.support of the first instance, but j.s.video recording, which showed kincherlow handling the gun, were presented in support of the second instance. kincherlow contends that the court had a sua sponte duty to instruct regarding unanimity because it was possible for the jury to agree that he pointed the gun at erick, but disagree as to which instance was the basis for the offense. he reasons that some jurors could interpret the video recording as depicting kincherlow pointing the gun at his brother in the second instance, but not credit j.s.testimony as to the first instance, while other jurors could conclude that the video did not depict kincherlow pointing the gun at erick (thus rejecting j.s. 8 the parties agree as to this point and our review of the record confirms that the prosecution did not clearly rely on a single instance of gun-pointing for the assault with a firearm charge. 10 second instance), but credit j.s.instance. kincherlow further asserts that the defenses counsel presented at trial differed: he argued both that j.s. was not credible and that the video did not depict him pointing the gun at erick. we agree. the continuous conduct exception does not apply in this instance, because although the conduct occurred in the same place in a matter of minutes, the fact that different evidence was offered in support of each instance introduced the possibility that the jury could believe that one instance of gun-pointing occurred while the other did notas was reflected in the different defenses advanced at trial. where, as in this case, the jury has a basis to differentiate between the two offenses, either the prosecution must elect one offense or the other, or the jury must be instructed that its verdict must be unanimous. because the prosecutor did not rely on a specific instance of gun-pointing, the trial court erred by not instructing on unanimity. we conclude that the error was prejudicial under both the watson and chapman standards. the defense ably attacked j.s.t trial, and our review of the video evidence leads us to conclude that reasonable persons could disagree as to whether it depicts kincherlow pointing the gun at erick. it is reasonably probable that if the jury had been properly instructed it could have reached a verdict more favorable to kincherlow. we therefore reverse 11 iction of assault with a firearm in count 2, and remand to the trial court for further proceedings multiple punishment (section 654) kincherlow next contends that the trial court erred in not staying the sentence in count 7 under section 654, because the two counts of negligent discharge of a firearm (counts 6 and 7) arose from a single course of conduct, such that imposition of both sentences constitutes impermissible multiple punishment. we agree with the people that the trial court did not err because the counts are based on two discrete instances in which kincherlow discharged the gunthe shot he fired into the air (count 6) and the shot he fired into the car (count 7)and do not punish kincherlow twice for the commission of a single act. legal principles convicted of, although not punished for, more than one crime arising out of the same any number opeople v. montoya (2004) 33 cal.4th 1031, 1034.) section 954 generally permits multiple conviction. section 654 is its counterpart concerning punishment. it prohibits multiple 12 954 permits multiple conviction, but section 654 prohibits multiple punishment, the trial court must stay execution of sentence on the convictions for which multiple punishment is prohibited. people v. sloan (2007) 42 cal.4th 110, 116.) s prohibition against multiple punishment falls into two general categories. the first categorynot present herearises when a single act or omission violates two provisions of the penal code. in the multiple punishment not only for a single criminal act but for a single indivisible course of conduct in which the (people v. moseley (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 1598, 1603 (moseley).) kincherlow relies on this latter principle in this appeal. be a predicate for multiple punishment only in circumstances that involve, or arguably involve, multiple (people v. mesa (2012) 54 cal.4th 191, 199.) initial inquiry in any section 654 application is to ascertain s objective and intent. if he entertained multiple criminal objectives which were independent of and not merely incidental to each other, he may be punished for independent violations committed in pursuit of each objective even though the violations shared common acts or (people v. beamon (1973) 8 cal.3d 625, 639.) 13 court, which must find evidence to support the existence of a separate intent and objective for each sentenced offense. (people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 354.) however, people v. trotter (1992) 7 cal.app.4th 363, 367368, fn. omitted (trotter).) where risk to [the victim or victims] separated by periods of time during which reflection was possible,id. at p. 368.) ial-evidence standard s factual finding, implicit or explicit, of whether there was a single criminal act or a course of conduct with a single criminal objective. [citations.] . . . [w]e review the trial s conclusions of law de novo. (moseley, supra, 164 cal.app.4th at p. 1603.) analysis because no objection under section 654 was made in the trial court, and the court made no express findings, we cs implied findings that 14 into the car were separate acts.9 he harbored the same intent when he fired the shotsto get erick to leave, and that the shots also shared the same victimthe general public. this argument ignores the fact that two acts may be separate although they occur over a short time periodthe victim is identical, when there is time for reflection, such that each act marks a separate decision by the defendant to engage in a criminal act, creates a separate and distinct risk, . we agree with the people that those factors are present here, and that the case is analogous to trotter, supra, 7 cal.app.4th 363, where the court of appeal held that the trial court did not err in punishing the defendant separately for gunshots at an officer, which occurred approximately a minute apart. in trotter, the defendant shot at an officer who was pursuing him three times from a moving vehicle. there apart. the defendant shot at the officer once, and then, 9 corrected on appeal regardless of whether the point was raised by objection in the trial court or assigned as error on (people v. perez (1979) 23 cal.3d 545, 549550, fn. 3.)people v. hester (2000) 22 cal.4th 290, 295.) 15 approximately a minute later, fired at the officer twice in close succession. (trotter, supra, 7 cal.app.4th at p. 366.) in holding that the trial court did not err by imposing separate sentences with respect to the first and second shot, the court of appeal cited to the supreme people v. harrison (1989) 48 cal.3d 321, 337338, which stated: no purpose is to be served under section 654 by distinguishing between defendants based solely upon the type or sequence of their offenses. . . intent to commit a number of separate base criminal acts upon his victim, and not the precise code section under which he is thereafter convicted, which renders section 654 inapplicable.(trotter, supra, 7 cal.app.4th at p. 367.) the trotter court explained, volitional act gave rise to multiple offenses. each shot required a separate trigger pull. all three assaults were volitional and calculated, and were separated by periods of time during which reflection was possible. none was . . . not be rewarded where, instead of taking advantage of an opportunity to walk away from the victim, he voluntarily resumed his . . people v. harrison, supra, 48 cal.3d at p. trotter, supra, at p. 368.) the trotter court concluded: different provisions of [the penal code] . . . 16 test, each shot evinced a separate intent to do violence . . . . applicability of section 654. if this were so, a defendant could be separately punished when the means used to perpetrate an assault were varied, but could not be separately punished if the means remained the same. this would lead to absurd results, and is an approach which harrison condemns. (48 cal.3d at pp. 330(trotter, supra, 7 cal.app.4th at p. 368, fn. omitted.) here, kincherlow shot into the air while standing by his house (count 6), shot into a garbage pile (not charged), and then walked toward the street where his brother had retreated. he stood in the area near the street moving the gun around several times in his hands before shooting into a parked vehicle (count 7) located between erick and himself. on the audio recording of j.s.there is a loud gunshot at approximately 1 minute and 15 seconds into the call. therefore, the shot in the air, which j.s. testified occurred before she contacted the police, necessarily occurred over a minute earlier than the shot into the car captured in the 911 call recording. substantial evidence supports the he length of time between the shots was sufficient for kincherlow to reflect on his actions and step away from the situation. indeed, according to j.s., during the period between the shots, erick told kincherlow repeatedly to go back into the house, specifically inviting kincherlow to reflect and stop before kincherlow fired again. he did not, and instead fired the final shot 17 direction, hitting the car. just as in trotter, the shots were culpability. (trotter, supra, 7 cal.app.4th at p. 368.) the trial court did not err in imposing separate concurrent sentences in counts 6 and 7. disposition firearm in count 2, and the corresponding enhancement for personal firearm use, and remand for further proceedings. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. moor, j. we concur: rubin, p. j. kim, j. 