 filed 10/17/19 p. v. love ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andre demonde love ii, defendant and appellant. b292534 los angeles county super. ct. no. sa097154 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lauren weis birnstein, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. r.e. scott & associates and r.e. scott, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, idan ivri and mary sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant andre demonde love ii of possession of a firearm by a felon and of bringing a loaded firearm onto, or possessing a loaded firearm on, a university campus. on appeal, love contends the prosecution failed to prove the corpus delicti of the crimes independently of the statements he made to a witness at the scene and later to police. he also asserts the prosecution did not prove the ronald reagan ucla medical center is on the ucla campus. in addition, love argues remand is required for the trial court to determine his ability to pay the restitution fine and court assessments. we find no error and therefore affirm conviction. we remand the case for further proceedings on the restitution fine and mandatory assessments. facts and procedural background on january 3, 2018, kristin nobles was a patient at the ronald reagan ucla medical center. she opened the door to a one-person gender-neutral bathroom in the hallway of the hospital and saw a handgun on a small table. nobles yelled, mmediately grabbed the s hadn anyone put the gun in the bathroom. andrew johnson had worked at the ucla medical center for about 14 years. the medical center is on the ucla campus. on january 3, 2018, in the restroom.in a they found a gun. there wa as andre love approached him. love asked johnson if he knew love asked johnson if he johnson told love the 3 ucla police department officer john berkeland arrived at the scene. a police sergeant and several hospital workers were standing near a plastic bag with a gun in it. berkeland removed the magazine from the gun; it contained eight 9-millimeter bullets. berkeland ran the guna smith & wesson a-39 semi-automaticthrough the automatic firearms system and [i] after berkeland spoke with johnson, he found love visiting a patient in one of the hospital rooms. love told gun. police arrested love and took him to the ucla police department. berkeland gave love the miranda admonitions1 and then interviewed him. love told berkeland he was at the hospital visiting his brother and had been there since midnight or 1:00 a.m the night before. berkeland asked love, [w]hat happened today? to sic] think it was serious, you know. i thought it was like fire security [sic] had left get a good glance. when i left out the bathroom i seen one of the like the or should i just leave it alone. probably security is going to come be honest. i was. i was really going to take it. i said naw, i put on his way back soon or not. you know? straight up. i already 1 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 4 (this statement was a lie.) love continued to insist the gun was . then he said found it in long beachhappened to see something shiny.the gun was in a bush and he could sell it because it was valuable. the people charged love with possession of a firearm by a felon (count 1) and bringing a loaded firearm onto or possessing a loaded firearm on the grounds of a university campus (count 2). the people alleged a prison prior under penal code section 667.5.2 the jury convicted love on both counts.3 the court sentenced love to three years in the state prison: the midterm of two years on the felon-in-possession count plus one year for the prison prior (which love admitted at the outset of trial). on the count for bringing or possessing a loaded gun on a campus, the court imposed the midterm of two years and stayed the sentence under section 654. the court ordered love to pay a restitution fine of $300 under section 1202.4, subdivision (b); the court imposed and stayed a parole revocation restitution fine in the same amount under section 1202.45. the court made no mention of the court operations assessment under section 1465.8 or the conviction assessment under government code section 70373, but both 2 statutory references are to the penal code. 3 the people also charged love with possession of a controlled substance with a firearm. berkeland testified he found stipulated the white powder was cocaine. the jury acquitted love on that count. 5 the minute order and the abstract of judgment indicate the court ordered those assessments. discussion 1. the prosecution presented sufficient evidence of the corpus delicti was in any way connected to the weapon until his extrajudicial corpus delicti rule. in people v. alvarez (2002) 27 cal.4th 1161 (alvarez) our prosecution must prove the corpus delicti, or the body of the crime itselfi.e., the fact of injury, loss, or harm, and the existence of a criminal agency as its cause. in california, it has traditionally been held, the prosecution cannot satisfy this burden by relying exclusively upon the extrajudicial statements, id. at pp. 1168-1169, italics omittedas they indicate a crime was committed, and forces the people to supply, as part of their burden of proof in every criminal prosecution, some evidence of the corpus delicti aside from, or in id. at p. 1178, italics omitted.) ly that a crime has been committed by someone. proof of the corpus delicti does not require proof of the identity of the perpetrator of the crime, nor people v. reeves (1974) 39 cal.app.3d 944, 946 (reeves)slight or prima facie showing, permitting the reasonable inference that a crime people v. ray (1996) 13 cal.4th 313, 342.) inference of criminal conduct, even if a noncriminal explanation alvarez, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 1171.) 6 be proven by circumstantial evidence and reasonable inferences (people v. wilde (1947) 82 cal.app.2d 879, 880-881 (wilde).) extrajudicial statements may then be considered for their full value to strengthen the case on all alvarez, at p. 1171.) here, witnesses found a stolen semi-automatic handgun, loaded with nine-millimeter ammunition, in a hospital bathroom on a university campus. plainly, the gun did not move itself onto the campus. the existence of the stolen, loaded firearm on the campus established the corpus delicti of the charged offenses. reeves is instructive. in that case, a man (robinson) fired a shotgun at a passing car, then ran into an alley when officers pursued him. robinson came out of the alley, hands raised. a few yards away officers found a sawed-off shotgun. two days later, reeves went to the police station and told an officer that he and robinson had gone to get a gun after an argument at a party and that the gun was his. (reeves, supra, 39 cal.app.3d at pp. 945-946.) the existence of the sawed-off shotgun alone established the corpus delicti of the offense of possession of a sawed-off shotgun. from the current active existence of the sawed-off shotgun it necessarily follows that someone sawed it off and someone id. at p. 946.) similarly, here, someone loaded the handgun and brought it into the hospital bathroom on the ucla campus. love argues reeves here was not illegal per sehave left the gun in the bathroom. but a security officer would not be carrying around a stolen handgun. reeves controls the result here. prosecution was required also to prove it was love who possessed the gun, the evidence was sufficient. the bathroom was in a 7 restricted area of the hospital that contained only 10 or 15 units. to enter, one must have an access card (issued to staff) or be buzzed in by a staff member. love was in the immediate vicinityvisiting his brother. (cf. wilde, supra, 82 cal.app.2d 879 [sufficient corpus delicti in felon-in-apprehension and arrest, officers returned to scene and found parked car].) 2. the prosecution proved the ronald reagan ucla medical center is on the ucla campus love contends there was insufficient evidence to prove the offense of bringing a firearm onto, or possessing a firearm on, a university campus because the prosecution failed to prove grounds of the campus or buildings were contiguous or as section 626.9, subdivision (h) requires. andrew johnson, who has worked at the ronald reagan ucla medical center for some 14 years, testified the hospital is on the ucla campus. ucla police officer berkeland testified boulevard, is there a sign that is [sicother entrances ipretty much every the ronald reagan ucla medical center, not on the university this statement. in any event, johnson testified the medical center is on the ucla campusin 8 usually similar, merriam-webster dict. (2019) <https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/contiguous> [as of oct. 3, 2019], archived at <https://perma.cc/eh62-vscf>; cambridge dict. (2019) <https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/ dictionary/english/ contiguous> [as of oct. 3, 2019], archived at <https://perma.cc /6c57-6fq5>is sufficient to establish that the medical center touches the campus, i.e., the building itself is on the grounds of the campus. entrance was enough to satisfy this element of the offense. 3. we remand for further proceedings on the restitution fine and assessments finally, citing people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157, love asserts we should remand the case for the trial court to determine his ability to pay the restitution fine and assessments. dueas argument, but does agree we should remand the case. the attorney general notes the neverhad an opportunity to object. the attorney general notes, on remand, the trial court should impose the assessments and love may request an ability to pay hearing if he wishes. as noted, at sentencing the trial court never mentioned the court operations assessment or the criminal conviction assessment but the court staff apparently included those in the minute order and abstract. however, in a criminal case, the oral pronouncement of sentence constitutes the judgment. (people v. zackery (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 380, 385; people v. mesa (1975) 14 cal.3d 466, 471.) accordingly, as the parties request, we remand the case for further proceedings on the restitution fine, any ability to pay issue, and the mandatory assessments. 9 disposition we affirm andre demonde we remand the case for the trial court to impose any assessments it deems required and to consider any inability to pay contentions love may wish to raise. love has the right to be present, with counsel, at those proceedings. (people v. rocha (2019) 32 cal.app.5th 352, 359-360.) not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: lavin, acting p. j. dhanidina, j. 