filed 1/10/20 p. v. williams ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. vicky lynn williams, defendant and appellant. b292001 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va146258) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john a. torribio, judge. conditionally reversed and remanded with directions. susan l. ferguson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, stephanie c. brenan and toni 2 r. johns estaville, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________________________ introduction a jury found appellant vicky lynn williams had pummeled a 74-year-head, and convicted her of elder abuse likely to cause great bodily harm. there were only two disputed issues at trial. the first was identity as the perpetrator, which the prosecution sought to prove through an eyewitness identification and alleged out-of-court statement that she was the person the eyewitness had seen and photographed. in its instructions on eyewitness testimony and on out-of-court statement, the court instructed the jury that the prosecution had the burden to prove identity and guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. the second disputed issue at trial was the likelihood of great bodily harm, which distinguished the charged offense from a lesser included offense. in instructing the jury how to complete the verdict forms (two for the charged offense and two for the lesser), the trial court instructed the jurors to complete the form finding appellant guilty of the charged offense only if they unanimously agreed the prosecution had proven -- meaning, according to the same instruction, the prosecution had proven it beyond a reasonable doubt. the court did not separately instruct the jury with calcrim no. 220, the 3 standard pattern burden of proof and the definition of reasonable doubt. during closing arguments, counsel for both parties agreed the prosecution had the burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt, and accurately defined it. on the same day the jury convicted appellant, penal code section 1001.36 went into effect, giving the trial court discretion to postpone the prosecution of qualifying defendants to allow them to participate in a mental health diversion program. in the short time between conviction and sentencing, neither the court nor the parties demonstrated awareness of the newly enacted legislation. appellantcounsel did, however, rely on asserted mental illness to argue that she should be granted probation. the court granted appellant probation and ordered her to pay assessments and a restitution fine. on appeal, appellant contends: (1) the trial court prejudicially erred by failing to instruct the jury on (a) the offense beyond a reasonable doubt; and (b) the definition of reasonable doubt; (2) to give the court an opportunity to exercise its new discretion to order appellant to participate in the mental health diversion program; and (3) due process rights by imposing assessments and a restitution fine without finding her able to pay. we find no prejudicial instructional error. we agree, however, that the trial court should have an opportunity to 4 determine whether appellant is eligible for diversion. to provide that opportunity, we conditionally reverse the judgment. because the trial court may, on remand, inquire restitution fine, we do not address her challenge to them. statement of the case the state charged appellant with elder abuse likely to cause great bodily harm, in violation of penal code section 368, subdivision (b)(1). a jury convicted appellant of the charged offense. the trial court sentenced appellant to three years probation and ordered her to serve the first six months of her sentence in county jail. the court further ordered appellant to pay a $40 court operations assessment, a $30 criminal conviction assessment, and a $300 restitution fine. appellant timely appealed. proceedings below a. trial evidence seventy-four-year-old yolanda lopez and her daughter wendy were waiting for a bus in september 2017 when a woman approached, furiously insulting them. the woman struck yolanda on the back of the head more than five times. an ambulance took yolanda to a medical center for treatment. yolanda sustained injuries that caused her to vomit and left her, at the time of trial (about nine months later), with pain in her head and difficulty sleeping. 5 yolanda her assailant. face during the attack. a few minutes after the attack, wendy used her cell phone to take photographs of the assailant, who had continued insulting and spitting at the two women. wendy gave her photographs to police officers and told them the assailant was between 40 and 45 years old (about 15 to 20 years younger than appellant). about two months later, a detective showed wendy a -pictured. wendy did not identify anyone as the assailant. the same day, the detective drove through the scene of the attack, hoping to find the assailant. he saw appellant and thought she looked like the woman he showed appellant after advising her of her miranda rights.1 appellant told the detective she was the woman in photographs. but she denied hitting anyone. when the detective tried to ask additional questions, appellant started yelling and refused to talk further. the detective did not ask wendy to identify appellant as the assailant, either in person or in another six-pack. wendy identified appellant as the assailant at trial. she confirmed that several months earlier, at the preliminary hearing, she also had identified appellant as the assailant. 1 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 6 appellant did not testify. she called no witnesses and introduced no evidence other than the photographic six-pack. b. jury instructions the court instructed the jury on the elements of elder abuse likely to cause great bodily harm, and on the elements of a lesser included offense requiring no likelihood of such harm.2 the court informed the jury that it would receive two verdict forms (guilty and not guilty) for the charged offense and two for the lesser, and provided directions (per calcrim no. 3517) on how to complete the forms. the court directed the jurors to complete the form finding appellant guilty of the charged offense only if they unanimously agreed the people had proven of that offense. in the same instruction, the court explained, 2 penal code section 368, subdivision (b)(1), creates a felony, punishable by up to four years imprisonment, that is committed knows or reasonably should know that a person is an elder . . . and who, under circumstances or conditions likely to produce great bodily harm or death, willfully causes or permits any elder . . . to suffer, or inflicts thereon unjustifiable misdemeanor. (id.,  368, as a person at least 65 years old. (id.,  368, subd. (g).) 7 3 the court delivered several other instructions eyond a reasonable doubt. first, it instructed the jury (per calcrim no. 315) on factors relevant to evaluating eyewitness identification testimony, concluding with the proving beyond a reasonable doubt that it was the defendant who committed the crime. if the people have not met this instructed the jury (per calcrim no. 355) that, in light of a , the defendant people have failed to prove the charges beyond a reasonable on the corpus delicti 3 alternative directions under calcrim no. 3517 were differentiated by what, if anything, the jurors unanimously agreed the people had proven or failed to prove. if the jurors could not reach unanimous agreement on whether the people had proven d offense, the court directed them to report an inability to reach an agreement, without completing any form. if the jurors unanimously agreed charged offense, the court directed them to complete the not guilty form for that offense (andagreement or lack thereof concerning the lesser offense, either or report an inability to reach agreement on it). 8 doctrine (per calcrim no. 359), explaining that: (1) the j-of-court statement to convict her unless it first concluded that other evidence -- which could be slight -- showed that some perpetrator committed the charged crime or a lesser included offense; (2) if other evidence m-of-court statement alone could prove her identity as the perpetrator; and (3) the jury could not convict appellant unless the people had proven her guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. the court did not deliver the standard pattern no. 220), or any other instruction devoted solely to that burden. the court instructed the jury (per calcrim no. 200) to consider together. c. closing arguments the prosecutor argued the evidence established each eyewitness identification testimony proved appellant was the assailant. beyond a reasonable doubt that the attack could have produced great bodily harm. she did not challenge the the charged offense, instead framing the issue for the jury as whether the prosecution had proven y as the assailant. she eyewitness identification testimony (calcrim no. 315) 9 reminded the jury that during voir dire, the trial court had contraburden to prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt. she further reminded the jurors that they had assured her they believed of proof beyond a reasonable doubt, which she defined as requiring evidence she repeatedly argued the prosecution had failed to meet its concluding by identifying five asserted weaknesses in the identification evidence and arguing that each individually established reasonable doubt. in rebuttal, the prosecutor argued de if the prosecution had proven identity as the assailant beyond a reasonable doubt; and (2) to decide if the prosecution had proven the elements of the charge beyond a reasonable doubt. she agreed the reasonable doubt standard required evidence leaving the jury with an abiding conviction of guilt. she argued the evidence -- testimony and -of-court statement -- proved identity as the assailant. she concluded by urging the jury the jury instruction on how to complete the verdict forms (calcrim no. 3517), and by asking the jury to find that the prosecution had proven all elements of the charged offense beyond a reasonable doubt. 10 d. verdict and sentencing before the jury began its deliberations, the court admonished it as followsescribed to you the way you are to approach your verdict with the -- both the greater crime and the lesser crime. please follow those the jury returned a guilty verdict on the charged offense of elder abuse likely to cause great bodily harm. the same day (june 27, 2018), the legislature granted trial courts new discretion, in specified circumstances, to order . . . to allow the defendant  1001.36, subd. (c); stats. 2018, ch. 34,  24.) a probation officer previously had suggested that appellant might have a significant mental health problem, noting, randomly committed an act of violence toward a stranger on [a] bus bench, suggesting she may have some mental who was 60 years old at the time of sentencing, had been unemployed and financially dependent on her parents for her entire life. at a sentencing hearing five days after the verdict, untreated mental health issues. she asked the court to continue the hearing to a date when an employee of the los angeles cou would be available. the court did so. 11 the court sentenced appellant approximately six weeks after she was convicted (on august 7). at the sentencing probation.4 the court, noting appellant had no prior record of violence, agreed to grant probationinformed the court that ms. lee, after interviewing appellant, had identified a department of mental health clinic [appellant] to contact to start receiving treatment. appel that the court could use this clinic information if it decided to impose a probation condition requiring mental health treatment. the court responded, of probation the court sentenced appellant to three years probation and ordered her to serve the first six months in county jail. it imposed a requirement to cooperate with the probation department in an anger management plan. it further ordered appellant to pay assessments and a restitution fine. at the conclusion of its oral pronouncement of sentence, the to identify the program she 4 in a sentencing memorandum, orequested a four-year prison term (the statutory maximum), and -term. 12 wanted appellant to enter. a [it] a condition and [appellant] indicates it is not necessary, so i think anger management -- the court replied anger mana discussion appellant contends: (1) the trial court prejudicially erred by failing to instruct the jury burden to prove each element of the charged offense beyond a reasonable doubt; and (b) the definition of reasonable doubt; (2) remand is warranted to give the court an opportunity to exercise its new discretion to order appellant to participate in the mental health diversion program; and imposing assessments and a restitution fine without finding her able to pay. a. instruction proof 1. burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt a. governing principles in every criminal case, the trial court has a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury that the prosecution bears the uilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. aranda (2012) 55 cal.4th 342, 352-353 (aranda).) the court may satisfy this duty by delivering the standard reasonable doubt instruction, calcrim no. 220. 13 (aranda, supra, at p. 353.) alternatively, the court may deliver other instructions explaining burden to prove each element of each charged offense beyond a reasonable doubt. (see id. at pp. 354, 358.) uctions fail to specifically link the reasonable doubt standard to the elements of a charged offense, the court commits federal constitutional error. (aranda, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 363.) under the standard set forth in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, the error requires reversal of a conviction if there is a reasonable possibility that the jury failed to apply the reasonable doubt standard when it convicted the defendant. (aranda, supra, at pp. 365-368.)5 in assessing the reasonableness of this possibility, the reviewing court may not consider the strength of the prosecution evidence. (id. at pp. 367-368.) otherwise, however, the reviewing court should evaluate the record as a whole, including other jury instructions and the content of closing arguments. (id. at pp. 365, 368.) 5 there is one exception to this harmless error rule, inapplicable here -- the reviewing court must automatically reverse, without a harmless error analysis, where the trial court not only failed to link the reasonable doubt standard to the elements of a charged offense, but also erroneously defined reasonable doubt in a of proof. (aranda, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 363.) appellant concedes that because the trial court did not define reasonable doubt erroneously (or at all), we are bound by aranda to reject her assertion of structural error. 14 b. analysis the trial court satisfied its duty to instruct on the roof beyond a reasonable doubt by delivering instructions specifically linking that burden to the elements of the charged offense. in instructing the jury how to complete the verdict forms for the charged and lesser offenses (calcrim no. 3517), the court directed the jurors to find appellant guilty of the charged offense only if they unanimously agreed the prosecution had proven apguilt beyond a reasonable doubt.6 (see aranda, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 359-361 [omission of standard reasonable doubt instruction was not federal constitutional error with regard to manslaughter conviction, where burden of proof beyond reasonable doubt was stated in instructions differentiating manslaughter from other 6 although calcrim no. 3517 did not list the elements of the charged offense, due process does not require juxtaposition of the elements and the reasonable doubt standard in a single instruction. (cf. aranda, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 361 [trial court erred with respect to gang-the instruction on the elements of that offense nor any other instruction given by the court connected the reasonable doubt people v. reyes have referred to evidence on each element of crime, rather than evidence crime was committed].) here, the court directed the jury to consider the instructions together and gave an instruction defining the charged offense by listing each element the prosecution was required to prove. 15 homicide offenses].) this instruction -- which both the trial court and the prosecutor reminded the jury to follow -- directly linked the reasonable doubt standard to the this link was reinforced by instructions on key evidence at trial, viz., in-court eyewitness identification and appel-of-court statement. the eyewitness identification instruction (calcrim no. 315) -- -- directed the jury to acquit appellant if the prosecution failed to prove her identity as the perpetrator beyond a reasonable doubt. similarly, the corpus delicti instruction (calcrim no. 359) prohibited the jury from convicting appellant unless the prosecution had proven her guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. appellant has forfeited her contention that calcrim no. 359 might have misled the jury into believing her conviction requiher counsel did not ask the trial court to clarify the instruction. (see people v. grimes (2016) 1 cal.5th 698, 723-to request clarification of circumstantial evidence instruction forfeited her contention that instruction misled jury to believe reasonable doubt standard did not apply to proof by direct evidence].) in any event, calcrim no. 359 was unlikely to mislead the jury into disregarding the reasonable doubt -- a burden calcrim no. 359 itself stated. the instruction 16 out-of-court statement. nothing suggests the jurors were incapable of understanding the distinction between that showing and the showing necessary for conviction. (see people v. rosales (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1254, 1258-1261 [calcrim no. 359 correctly stated law and had no reasonable likelihood of confusing jury].) even had we found error, we would find it harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. counsel for both parties discussed the of proof in a manner leaving no reasonable possibility that the jury failed to apply the reasonable doubt standard when it convicted appellant. the prosecutor herself informed the jury that the people had the burden of proving, beyond a reasonable doubt, the the perpetrator. they had assured her, during voir dire, that they believed in reasonable doubt. further, she repeatedly argued the prosecution had failed to meet its burden to prove concluding by identifying five asserted weaknesses in the identification evidence and arguing each individually established reasonable doubt. the court did not contradict the ement on the reasonable doubt standard. indeed, voir dire, the court had contrasted lesser burdens with the 17 (see aranda, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 371-372 [failure to link reasonable doubt standard to gang offense was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt, in part because trial court, during voir direproof beyond a reasonable doubt with the lesser standards of proof that applied in other settingsin short, there is no reasonable possibility that the jury, upon entering the jury room, forgot or disregarded these reminders of the standard of proof. (cf. id. at p. that the jury would have divined a different standard of proof or ignored one entirely with respect to the gang offense) 2. definition of reasonable doubt the legislature has defined reasonable doubt as that state of the case, which, after the entire comparison and consideration of all the evidence, leaves the minds of jurors in that condition that they cannot say they feel an abiding (pen. code,  1096.) a trial court errs under state law if it fails to define reasonable doubt for the jury. (aranda, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 374-375.) here, the trial court erred by failing to define reasonable doubt. respondent does not argue otherwise. but the error was not prejudicial. under the standard set forth in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, the error requires reversal only if there is a reasonable probability that an instruction defining reasonable doubt would have 18 yielded an outcome more favorable to appellant. (aranda, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 354, 375.) appellant identifies no support for that probability in the record, and we find none. counsel for both parties clarification. (see aranda, supra, at pp. 375-376 [trial reasonable doubt was not prejudicial, in part because jury did not request clarification and closing arguments did not invite application of lesser standard]; cf. people v. mayo (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 535, 551-552 [omission of ldefinition of reasonable doubt was not prejudicial; courts have recognized that .) b. remand to consider eligibility for diversion appellant asks us to remand to the trial court for an exercise iscretion under penal code section 1001.36, the mental health diversion statute that became effective on the day she was convicted. we need not decide whether appellant forfeited this request, as respondent argues, by failing to raise it in the short time between her conviction and sentencing. even if traditional forfeiture rules apply, we exercise our discretion to consider the merits. (see, e.g., 6 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2019) criminal appeal,  163.) respondent does not challenge penal code section 1001.36 applies retroactively to all cases 19 in which the judgment is not yet final. our supreme court is reviewing the issue, on which the courts of appeal have reached different conclusions. (compare people v. frahs (2018) 27 cal.app.5th 784, 791 [statute applies retroactively], review granted dec. 27, 2018, s252220; people v. burns (2019) 38 cal.app.5th 776, 785-788 [same], review granted oct. 30, 2019, s257738, with people v. torres (2019) 39 cal.app.5th 849, 855-856 (torres) [statute does not apply retroactively]; people v. craine (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 744, 754-760 [same], review granted sept. 11, 2019, s256671.) we agree with the courts that have held that the statute applies retroactively. we need not further discuss the issue, given its impending resolution by our supreme court and it. where a defendant meets eligibility requirements, the court may (but need not) to undergo mental health treatment.7 (pen. code,  1001.36, 7 satisfaction that the defendant has a mental disorder identified in the most recent edition of the diagnostic and statistical satisfaction that the disorder was a significant factor in the commission of the charged offense; (3) a qualified mental health consent to diversion and waiver of speedy trial rights; (5) the d (6) (fn. is continued on the next page.) 20 subds. (a), (c).) remand for an exercise of this discretion is appropriate if there is an affirmative indication in the record that the trial court may find a qualifying disorder, unless the record otherwise affirmatively indicates that remand would be futile. (see torres, supra, 39 cal.app.5th at p. 856; people v. jefferson (2019) 38 cal.app.5th 399, 409.) remand is appropriate here. by granting appellant probation, the trial court implicitly indicated its belief that would not pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. (pen. code,  1001.36, subd. (b)(1)(f).) moreoverinformed the court that a mental health professional (ms. lee) had identified a clinic appellant could contact to receive treatment. this representation indicates that appellant may provide satisfactory evidence of a qualifying disorder and of its responsiveness to treatment. (id.,  1001.36, subds. (b)(1)(a), (c).) the same evidence, along with the nature of the offense (from which the probation officer inferred a mental disorder), may satisfy the court that the disorder was a significant factor in the commission. (id., in the community. (pen. code,  1001.36, subd. (b)(1).) the incorporated into penal code section 1001.36 requires an unreasonable risk that the defendant will commit a specified violent felony, including any serious or violent felony punishable by life imprisonment or death. (id.,  1001.36, subd. (b)(1)(f), 1170.18, subd. (c), 667, subd. (e)(2)(c)(iv).) 21  1001.36 subd. (b)(1)(b).) finally, on appeal of an opportunity to participate in diversion (knowing it would require compliance with treatment) indicates she may be able to satisfy the remaining eligibility requirements, which participate in diversion and to comply with treatment. (id.,  1001.36, subds. (b)(1)(d), (e).) to allow the trial court to determine whether appellant is eligible for diversion, we conditionally reverse the judgment. if the court does not grant diversion, or if the pen. code,  1001.36, subd. (d)), the court shand, as it deems appropriate, either reinstate her sentence or conduct further sentencing proceedings. such further sentencing proceedings may include an inquiry into itution fine. we therefore do not address challenge to the assessments and restitution fine under people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157. 22 disposition the judgment is conditionally reversed. the case is remanded to the trial court with instructions to determine whether appellant is eligible for diversion under penal code section 1001.36 and, if so, to exercise its discretion within the procedures set forth in the statute. if the court does not grant diversion, or if the court grants diversion but later criminal proceedings should be reinstated, the court shall either reinstate her sentence or conduct further sentencing proceedings. not to be published in the official reports. manella, p. j. we concur: collins, j. currey, j. 