 filed 11/7/19 p. v. garcia ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. edwin garcia, defendant and appellant. b293144 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba460923) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed with directions. lynette g. moore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general of california, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, marc a. kohm, deputy attorney general, yun k. lee, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted edwin garcia of stalking a woman. this crime has three elements. the state must prove (1) garcia followed or harassed the victim; (2) he made a credible threat against her; and (3) he made this threat with the intent to place her in reasonable fear for her safety. (pen. code,  646.9, subd. (a).) on appeal, garcia argues there was insufficient evidence to satisfy elements two and three. garcia also argues the trial court erroneously admitted evidence and should have stricken a prior -year sentences for prior prison terms on account of a new statute we refer to as sb 136. unmodified code citations are to the penal code. i given the verdict, these are the facts. in 2015, the victim was an extern at the american civil liberties union. she met garcia while visiting a client in jail. garcia, an inmate, was handcuffed on the other side of the room. he waved to get her to garcia for less than five minutes. garcia made her promise to write him. she said she would give his information to the aclu. on july 2, 2015, garcia wrote the victim a letter. he called he said her frame, with its curves, is as tempting as cake to so he could take her out on a date. he was in trial again for making criminal threats in a letter he wrote the judge and his 3 attorney. according to garcia, when he said he wanted to write to the victim, she have to chop their legs to prevent death or that you ran over their cute-letter fro without awaiting a reply, garcia wrote a second letter. e i just sent you a letter, like, s and hoped she did not lie about writing to him. garcia said he it would not be as easy. make me think of something i [saw] recently, and it goes, like, the victim wrote back, thanking garcia but saying she could not share her personal information. in march 2017, garcia sent the victim several messages on facebook and linkedin. the victim did not respond. she blocked garcia on linkedin and deactivated her facebook days later, garcia called the victim at work. she told a coworker not to put the call through. the victim was afraid. she did not know how garcia found her. coworkers on the phone. a supervisor instructed staff not to a week later, garcia went to the vi she was terrified and did not go out to see him. the receptionist said the victim was not available. garcia gave documents to a supervisor. 4 when another supervisor left the building at the end of the day, she saw garcia around the corner. she called to warn the victim. a coworker called police. the victim was distraught. she told police she did not feel safe going to her car. officers found garcia outside and put him in the back of a police car. he told the officers he wanted to talk to the victim about a case. the officers told garcia to leave and told the victim to get a restraining order. the documents garcia gave the supervisor included a letter. aling he acknowledged he could have scared her by becoming a would commit a misdemeanor just to get the victim to represent him. garcia also wrote about his time machine. he signed the other documents inventions. the victim feared garcia was delusional and would not stop contacting her. garcia sent the victim an aggressive message on her reactivated facebook account. ave gone so bad, with you calling the police. you could have told me to my violent offenses and conviction for unlawful sex with a minor. days later, garcia sent victim another facebook message. 5 things could have went so bad with the police? like anyone you ha he also said he fantasized about honest and for blowing things out of proportion and calling the - when a trial court granted the victim a temporary restraining order, garcia messaged the victim on facebook to say surveillance. the court then granted the victim a three-year restraining order prohibiting garcia from contacting the victim or coming within 100 yards of her. garcia violated the restraining order. he tried to contact her by sending emails to her coworker who had represented the victim at the restraining order hearing. he sent flowers to her commemorate the day they met or the first letter he sent. and approached her in the lobby. ounter. the victim was left when she called a coworker for help. garcia returned later that day and coworkers called police again. deputy arrested him there. 6 garcia had two cell phones and documents containing the e number and the victim giving a commencement address several times. he ran garci the phones contained photos of the victim and her family, urning 15 letter. this video exceeded five minutes. it was garcia igniting the letter, using it to light a cigarette, and then background. the jury convicted garcia of stalking while violating a restraining order. ( 646.9, subd. (b).) separately, the trial court found five prior felony conviction allegations to be true and on accousentenced garcia to 11 years. it imposed the high term of four and added three one-year sentences for prior prison terms. ii substantial evidenc 7 a the government had to prove three elements. briefly, victim; (2) he made a credible threat against her, meaning he appeared able to carry out the threat; and (3) he made the threat with the intent to place the victim in reasonable fear for her safety. ( 646.9, subd. (a).) this shorthand leaves out important details, but gives us a handy overwith the intent required by law. garcia does not contest element one on appeal. the controversy instead focuses on elements two and three: whether garcia threatened the victim within the meaning of element two, and whether he made this threat with the intent element three requires. we take up these two elements in turn. b element two required the government to prove garcia made a credible threat with the apparent ability to carry out the threat so as to cause the victim reasonably to fear for her safety. ( 646.9, subd. (g).) this statute explains a credible threat includes one implied by conduct or a combination of verbal, written, or electronically communicated statements and conduct. (the stalker also must make the threat with the intent to place the victim in reasonable fear for her safety. ( 646.9, subd. (g).) we treat this intent component in the next section as element three.) element two focuses on the effect victim, while element three focuses on his intent. 8 on element two, the evidence was substantial: garcia made an implied threat, it was credible, and it caused fear. the jury had substantial grounds for finding more you crush a rose, the more its fragrance he you have to chop their legs to prevent death or that you ran over their cute- garcia wrote the victim he wanted to there is more. taken as a whole, imagery supported the finding of an implied threat. the jury also was entitled to conclude the threat was could get to her, on his timetable. credible threat would have caused a reasonable person to fear for fear was reasonable. (cf. people v. lopez (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 436, 452453 [defendant was obsessed with victim and persistently refused to end what he perceived to be their relationship; his conduct amounted to a credible threat notwithstanding absence of overt threats].) c we turn to element three, which required garcia to threaten the victim with the intent to put her in reasonable fear. ( 646.9, subd. (g).) garcia acted with the requisite intent. he any dealing with me. . . . it also can be that i scared you by there is more but we need go no further. (see, e.g., people v. falck (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 9 287, 291294 & 299 [jury could infer intent from persistent contacts despite repeated rejections, a stated desire to engage in sexual acts with victim, and references to their being together for eternity].) substantial evidence supported this conviction. iii the trial court properly allowed the prosecution to question garcia about threatening letters he wrote his former attorney and a judge. we review for abuse of discretion. (people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 491 (scott).) during direct examination, garcia testified he endured i threatened them and almost having 17 years of my life taken -examination, garcia backtracked and said it was not all lies. garcia admitted sending letters to a judge and an attorney. he meant to say the judge and garcia wrote. lawyer lied. the trial court did not allow the prosecution to ask about what garc to be scared . . . . at that point the trial court allowed the 10 contents and to the fact there was a third party who heard garcia threaten the judge. the court did not admit the letters themselves into evidence. garcia argues the trial court erred by admitting the aid he er at trial. garcia also wrote he was going to visit the attorney when garcia got out then, have garcia also pr garcia first argues the cross-examination presented improper character evidence under evidence code sections 1101, subdivision (a) and 1102. he forfeited these claims by not raising them at trial. (see people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 437.) garcia next argues the trial court erroneously admitted the prior inconsistent statement exception to hearsay. (evid. code,  1235.) this exception is not pertinent. the trial court court gave a proper limiting instruction. this argument fails. finally, garcia argues the trial court should have excluded discretion to admit impeachment evidence is broad. (people v. 11 clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 932.) the trial court exercised sound discretion. there was no error. iv thprior conviction under the three strikes law. ( 667, subds. (b)(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)(d), 1385, subd. (a).) garcia argues the trial court should have stricken his 2008 conviction for assault on a peace officer ( 245, subd. (c)) because (1) this strike was remote in time, and (2) the current offense, stalking, involved no use of force. both arguments fail. we consider whether garcia was outside the three strikes should be treated as though he was not previously convicted of a serious or violent felony. (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161.) past convictions, background, character, and prospects. (people v. williams, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 161.) although garcia only had one strike convictionfor assault on a peace officerother convictions included unlawful sex with a minor more than three years younger, battery on a peace officer, resisting an executive officer, attempted firearm removal from a police officer, battery by gassing, indecent exposure, disorderly conduct in soliciting lewd acts, and carrying a dirk or dagger. garcia has been continuously in custody from 2005 to the present, except for brief periods in 2011 and 2017. 2008 prior strike conviction in the interest of justice because garcia never threatened or acted violently towards the victim, however, after the verdict in this case 12 going the next day garcia told a i get out after my term, i'm going to at trial and believed garcia was a threat to the victim. garcia now argues the prior strike conviction occurred nine years ago and should be strickprimary purpose is to protect society by deterring repeat felony offenders. (see ewing v. california (2003) 538 u.s. 11, 2627.) felonies, shows no break in his crirecidivism places him within the spirit of the three strikes law. actual force and only the threat of force. spirit only in extraordinary circumstances. (people v. carmony arbitrary or irrational that no reasonable person could possibly agree. (id. at p. 377.) there was no abuse of discretion. v in supplemental briefing, the parties observe sb 136 amends section 667.5 to eliminate sentences for so-called prison priors in many cases. the governor signed sb 136 on october 8, 2019. the trial court added three one-year sentences for prison priors t-year term, to produce a total sentence of 11 years. the parties agree we should strike three years off this 11- sb 136 does not apply if a previous prison sentence arose from does not include this kind of crime. 13 date, nor will the remittitur have issued. we therefore order that -year sentences for his prison priors be stricken effective january 1, 2020. we will not remand this case to the trial court for resentencing, because the trial court already imposed the maximum possible prison term for this crime. we direct the trial court to amend the abstract of judgment to reflect a maximum prison term of eight and not 11 years. disposition the judgment is affirmed. the three one-year sentences for january 1, 2020, so his total prison sentence is eight rather than 11 years. the trial court must correct the abstract of judgment to reflect this change forthwith but need summon neither attorneys nor parties to court for this purpose. wiley, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. stratton, j. 