filed 9/20/19 p.v. bolanos ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. leonel bolanos, defendant and appellant. b293719 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba458863) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. affirmed. robert h. derham, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, yun k. lee and kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction following a jury trial, defendant and appellant leonel bolanos was convicted of 15 counts of sexually abusing a child and sentenced to 60 years to life, plus 46 years. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury on the specific intent element of sexual penetration in violation of penal code section 288.7, subdivision (b)1, and by instructing the jury that the people did not need to prove motive. defendant also asserts the trial court erred by admitting expert opinion testimony regarding child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome (csaas). finally, defendant argues certain assessments and fines were imposed without a hearing on his ability to pay, in violation of people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157 (dueas). we affirm. ii. background a. procedural history on february 22, 2018, the los angeles county district attorney filed an information charging defendant with sexually abusing victim j.v. (the child). counts 1 through 8 charged defendant with violating section 288.7, subdivision (b) (oral copulation or sexual penetration of a child 10 years old or younger); counts 9 through 14 charged him with violating section 288, subdivision (a) (lewd acts upon a child under the age of 14 years); count 13 charged him with violating section 288a, 1 further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 subdivision (c)(2)(b) (forcible oral copulation of a victim under the age of 14 years); and counts 14 and 15 charged him with violating section 288, subdivision (b)(1) (forcible lewd acts upon a child under the age of 14 years). on september 13, 2018, a jury found defendant guilty on all counts. the trial court sentenced defendant to an aggregate sentence of 60 years to life, plus 46 years, comprised of the following terms: on counts 1 through 4, 15 years to life consecutively for each count; on counts 5 through 8, 15 years to life for each count, to be served concurrently with the sentence for counts 1 through 4; on count 9, the high term of eight years consecutive; on counts 10 through 12, one-third the midterm of six years (two years), consecutive for each count; on count 13, the high term of 12 years consecutive; and on counts 14 and 15, the high term of 10 years consecutive for each count. the trial court imposed the following fines and assessments: a $30 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373) per count, for a total of $450; a $40 court operations assessment ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) per count, for a total of $600; a $300 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)); a $300 parole revocation fine ( 1202.45), which was stayed until parole was revoked; and a $300 sexual offender program fund fine ( 290.3). b. trial 1. ase the child, who was born in 2005, was about three or four years old when defendant began dating m.c., the child (mother). when the child was about four years old, defendant 4 moved in with mother and the child, and the three lived in an apartment on kenmore avenue (first apartment) in los angeles. when the child was about seven to nine years old, she, mother, and defendant moved into a second apartment, also on kenmore avenue (second apartment). in both apartments, the child slept in the same room as mother and defendant, with the child sleeping on one bed and mother and defendant sharing another bed nearby. mother worked four to five days a week during the time of the abuse. defendant also worked full-time, except during two periods of six months and one year, respectively, when he was disabled due to a tumor on his foot. defendant began to sexually abuse the child when she was about seven or eight years old. he abused her three to four times per week. the abuse occurred when defendant and the child were at home alone. defendant began by touching the childbreasts and vagina over her clothes on multiple occasions. when the child was nine or ten years old, defendant began to touch her breasts under her clothing. he did so on more than one occasion. defendant also began to touch vagina under her clothing and did so more than once. beginning when the child was nine or ten years old, defendant would put his mouth o on them. he did this more than once. defendant would also put his he did this on more than one occasion. the child also recounted incidents when defendant inserted his finger into her vagina, which caused her pain. the first time he did so was when the child was younger than 10 years old. the child initially testified that defendant did this more than once, 5 but not often. then, the child (and jurors) viewed a video of the earlier interview at stuart house, a child advocacy center. in the video, the child stated that defendant first put his mouth on, and inserted his finger into, her vagina when she was six years old and living in the first apartment. she further stated that defendant would put his fingers in her vagina and move them in and out, and did so approximately once a week. after reviewing the video, the child recalled that defendant inserted his finger into her vagina about once a week. when the child was about seven or eight years old, she told mother . mother asked defendant did not believe the child. the child was afraid that defendant would do something to her or mother and therefore told mother that she had lied about the abuse. defendant last abused the child on july 3, 2017, when the child was 11 years old. the child was in the kitchen reading a book when defendant grabbed her wrist and pulled her toward the bedroom. the child told defendant she did not want to go with him, and grabbed onto a chair in the kitchen. defendant gripped wrist harder. she let go of the chair and grabbed onto a drawer in the hallway. defendant again and she let go of the drawer. defendant threw the child onto the bed he shared with mother, pulled up her shirt, and touched her breasts with his hand. he also sucked on her nipples. he then pulled down the defendant told her to get dressed. she put on her clothes and went to the kitchen. 6 on july 4, 2017, the child, who was crying in the living room, told mother that she was unhappy because defendant had been sexually abusing her when mother was not home. mother confronted defendant, who again denied abusing the child. mother directed the child to call the police, who arrived 20 minutes later. after being interviewed by the police, the child went to the hospital to be examined. the child was then interviewed at stuart house the next day. nurse abigail rea of the ucla rape treatment center examined the child on july 4, 2017. she sneck, breasts, upper inner thighs, mouth, anal area, and external genital area for dna. the child had no visual injuries, which was consistent with the history she provided to rea. jennifer mclean-madera was a nurse practitioner at the ucla rape treatment center. on july 4, 2017, she performed a sexual assault suspect exam on defendant. los angeles police department criminalist bradley tom analyzed the samples taken from the child. the swabs from the ght thigh had a mixture of dna from two contributors. the child was one of the contributors, and dna profile. the 2. ase defendant did not testify and called no witnesses. 7 3. arguments counts 1 through 8 charged defendant with violating section 288.7, subdivision (b), oral copulation or sexual penetration of a child 10 years of age or younger. the prosecutor informed the jury in both opening and closing arguments that counts 1 through 4 charged defendant with oral copulation, while counts 5 through 8 charged defendant with sexual penetration. the prosecutor then discussed the evidence that supported counts 9 through 12, lewd acts upon a child less than 14 years old. the prosecutor described the evidence that defendant had clothing, and had placed his mouth on her breasts. the prosecutor explained that for these counts, the people were intent to arousing, appealing to, gratifying the lust, passions or the prosecutor explained the required touching was a different type of touching than what something that a doctor does when examining a child. okay. minal, but a touching with that intent, with a sexual he prosecutor further explained that counts 13 through 15 related to the events of july 3, 2017, when defendant used force on the child. during her closing argument, defense counsel argued that the people had failed to meet their burden of proving the charges beyond a reasonable doubt. counsel further reminded the jury about the presumption of innocence: [defendant] is presumed to not have orally copulated [the child]. 8 not to have committed any lewd and lascivious acts on [the cific intent required to find him guilty of lewd conduct with a child under the age of 14. iii. discussion a. jury instruction omitted necessity of finding specific intent for sexual penetration charges defendant contends the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury that sexual penetration of a child 10 years of age or younger, in violation of section 288.7, subdivision (b), required a finding of specific intent. is the act of causing the penetration, however slight, of the genital or anal opening of any person or causing another person to so penetrate ths genital or anal opening for the purpose of sexual arousal, gratification, or abuse by any foreign object, substance, instrument, or device, or by any unknown object.ics added.) based on the statutory language, the trial court was required to instruct the jury that when defendant sexually penetrated the child, he did so with the intent to gain sexual arousal or gratification or to people v. zaratecastillo (2016) 244 cal.app.4th 1161, 1167; people v. ngo (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 126, 157.) the attorney general concedes that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury on specific intent but argues 9 that the error was harmless under the chapman standard of review. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18.) tbecause the prosecutor elected to proceed on these counts on a theory that defendant sexually penetrated the child. (people v. jantz (2006) 137 cal.app.4th 1283, 1292 [receives evidence of more than one factual basis for a conviction, the prosecution must select one act to prove the offense, or the court must instruct the jury that it must unanimously agree on one particular act as the offense]; accord people v. leonard (2014) 228 cal.app.4th 465, 491.) on counts 1 through 4, the prosecutor elected to proceed on a theory that defendant orally copulated the child, which does not require a finding of specific intent. (people v. mendoza (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 72, 80 [oral copulation under  288.7, subd. (b) is general intent crime].) in determining whether the error in omitting an element of a charged offense was harmless, a thorough examination of the record. if, at the end of that examination, the court cannot conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury verdict would have been the same absent the errorfor example, where the defendant contested the omitted element and raised evidence sufficient to support a contrary findingreviewing court concludes beyond a reasonable doubt that the omitted element was uncontested and supported by rationally lead to a contrary finding with respect to the omitted people v. mil (2012) 53 cal.4th 400, 417, quoting 10 neder v. united states (1999) 527 u.s. 1, 17, 19; accord, people v. aranda (2012) 55 cal.4th 342, 367.) here, the error was harmless. the trial court correctly instructed the jury on counts 9 through 12, engaging in lewd conduct with a child under 14 years old, and on counts 13 through 15, using force when engaging in lewd conduct with a child under 14 years old, that the people were required to prove that defendant acted the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions or sexual desires of himself or the the jury found defendant guilty of counts 9 through 15 and and vagina over and under her clothes, he acted with the of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions or although this is a different intent than the one required for a finding of sexual penetration, there is no evidence in the record that a jury could have rationally concluded that when defendant sexually penetrated the child, he did so with any intent other than to given the facts of this case, which include repeated oral copulation and digital penetration of the child, in secret, over a period of years, we cannot imagine a circumstance in which a rational jury could have concluded that defendant acted without specific intent when he sexually penetrated the child. (people v. ngo, supra, 225 there are very few circumstances in which a person would intentionally penetrate another person without such a purpose. perhaps, for example, a father could penetrate his daughter when physically examining her for 11 medical reasons. or a defendant could be mentally unable to form the specific intent for some reason, e.g., mental illness. whatever the possibility of such scenarios, nothing in the record would support them here].) was that the people failed to meet their burden to prove that any of the unlawful touching occurred, not that defendant lacked the requisite specific intent at the time he touched the child. thus, the evidence supporting a finding of specific intent was uncontested. we therefore conclude that failing to instruct the jury on the specific intent necessary to commit sexual penetration of a child, in violation of section 288.7, subdivision (b), was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. b. instruction on motive defendant next contends that the trial court erred in instructing the jury with calcrim no. 370, as follows: people are not required to prove that the defendant had a motive to commit the crime charged. in reaching your verdict you may, however, consider whether the defendant had a motive. [] having a motive may be a factor tending to show that the defendant is guilty. not having a motive may be a factor tending this instruction improperly removed the specific intent element from the jury for counts 9 through 12, lewd acts upon a child under the age of 14 years in violation of section 288, subdivision (a), and counts 14 through 15, lewd acts upon a child under the age of 14 years by force or fear in violation of section 288, subdivision (b)(1). 12 even if we assume the instruction on motive removed an element of the offense for counts 9 through 12, 14, and 15, we conclude that any such error was harmless. as discussed above, the evidence in support of finding that defendant acted to arouse overwhelming and uncontested. thus, any error in instructing the jury with calcrim no. 370 was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. mil, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 417.) c. csaas expert testimony defendant next contends the trial court erred by allowing a witness to testify about csaas. prior to trial, defendant objected to the proffered testimony of dr. susan hardie, an expert on csaas, on grounds that such testimony would be unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352. the trial court overruled the objection. ony of dr. hardie is offered on the subject of [csaas]is not evidence that the defendant in this case committed any of the crimes that are charged against him. [] you may, however, consider this evidence and you may consider it only in deciding whether or conduct of someone who has been molested in evaluating the believability of at trial, hardie testified that csaas was a term first used by dr. roland summit, to disabuse clinicians of the myth that a child who has been sexually abused would automatically disclose that abuse. hardie further testified that a sexually abused child 13 may exhibit five behavioral characteristics: secrecy, helplessness, accommodation, delayed disclosure, and recantation. as to the latter two characteristics, hardie explained why a child may delay disclosing sexual abuse by weeks, month, or years. regarding recantation, hardie testified that not all sexually abused children recant a report of abuse, but recantation is a method of denying or minimizing a painful memory, and a child may retract a report of abuse based on the reactions of other people, such as a non-offending parent. following the close of evidence, the trial court again instructed the jury on : . . . testimony from dr. susan hardie regarding [csaas][csaas] is not evidence that the defendant committed any of the crimes charged against him. [] you may consider this evidence only in deciding the conduct of someone who has been molested, and in evaluating the defendant contends that csaas expert testimony should not be admissible in california, citing cases from other jurisdictions. we reject this argument as other jurisdictions are not persuasive when california courts have spoken on the matter. (ammerman v. callender (2016) 245 cal.app.4th 1058, 1086.) as defendant concedes, csaas expert testimony is admissible under california authority. (see, e.g., people v. julian (2019) 34 cal.app.5th 878, 885; people v. gonzales (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 494, 503; people v. patino (1994) 26 cal.app.4th 1737, 1744.) defendant next argues that the admission of testimony violated his right to a fair trial and due process under 14 the federal and state constitutions. [the defendant] failed to object on these grounds at trial, the claim is not people v. ramos (1997) 15 cal.4th 1133, 1170; accord, people v. burgener (2003) 29 cal.4th 833, 872; people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 592, fn. 17.) argument, we would reject it. testimony does not by itself deny [a (people v. patino, supra, 26 cal.app.4th at p. 1747.) although csaas expert testimony is not admissible to prove the complaining witness has in fact been sexually abused[] (people v. mcalpin (1991) 53 cal.3d 1289, 1300 . . .)[,] [i]t is admissible to rehabiliwith her testimony claiming molestation. (ibid.) such testimony is needed to disabuse jurors of commonly held misconceptions of child -impeaching behavior. (id. at p. 1301.)people v. gonzales, supra, 16 cal.app.5th at p. 503; accord, people v. julian, supra, 34 cal.app.5th at p. 885.) in this case, tcrucial to the the child had previously recanted her reporting of sexual abuse to mother. mother testified that she did not initially believe the child. during cross-examination, mother stated that she never saw defendant touch or kiss the child in an inappropriate manner. moreover, during closing argument, defense counsel argued that the child] tried to tell her mother something about [defendant] that very first time. [mother] knows [the child] far better than any of you. and if she did not believe [the child], then you must 15 under these circumstances, we conclude the trial court did not err in testimony. d. fines, fees, and assessments finally, defendant contends the trial court erred by imposing the fees, fines, and assessments described above without first determining whether he had an ability to pay. dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.4th 1157, . . . [division 7 of the second appellate district] held it violated due process under both the united states and california constitutions to impose a court operations assessment as required by . . . section 1465.8[, subdivision (a)(1),] or the court facilities assessment mandated by government code section 70373, neither of which is intended to be punitive in nature, without first determining the convicted people v. castellano (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 485, 488-489.) regarding the minimum restitution fine under section 1202.4, subdivision (b), the dueas court although the trial court is required to impose a restitution fine, the court must stay execution of the fine until it id. at p. 489.) the trial court imposed a restitution fine of $300, a court facility assessment of $40 per count, and a court construction assessment of $30 per count, for a total of $1,050, without holding a hearing to determine whether defendant had the ability to pay such fines and assessments. prior to dueas, these fines and 16 assessments were mandatory.2 (people v. rodriguez (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 1540, 1543, fn. 2.) the record demonstrates that defendant is able to work. although he was home on disability for two periods (totaling approximately 18 months), defendant was otherwise employed full-time during the approximately seven years that he resided with the victim. further, defendant has been sentenced to a lengthy prison term and thus should be able to earn sufficient prison wages to satisfy his fees. (see people v. jones (2019) 36 rently range from $12 to $56 a based on these particular facts, any error in failing to hold an ability to pay hearing was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (ibid.; people v. johnson (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 134, 139-140.) 2 imposition of the sexual offender program fund fine. even before dueas, defendant was able to, but did not, challenge the imposition of that fine based on an inability to pay, pursuant to section 290.3, subdivision (a). he has thus forfeited that challenge on appeal. (people v. gutierrez (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 1027, 1033, fn. 12; people v. acosta (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 701, 705.) 17 iv. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kim, j. we concur: rubin, p. j. baker, j. 