filed 8/16/19 p. v. robinson ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. quintin m. robinson, defendant and appellant. b293333 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya094437) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. scott t. millington, judge. affirmed. james renteria, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________________ 2 quintin robinson appeals from a judgment that sentences his appointed counsel filed an opening brief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende). we affirm the judgment. facts on july 2, 2017, los angeles deputy sheriff manuel ibarra and his partner were patrolling the area between 112th street and berendo avenue when they executed a traffic stop for a broken left tail lamp. as deputy ibarra approached the stopped vehicle, he smelled marijuana emanating from it. robinson was in the rear passenger seat and two others were in the front seats. they were all ordered out of the vehicle and detained. deputy ibarra recovered a container of marijuana and metal knuckles deputy ibarra arrested robinson and booked the metal knuckles into evidence. the people filed an information charging robinson with possession of metal knuckles. (pen. code,  21810.) at his preliminary hearing, but expressed his dissatisfaction with his appointed attorney, and moved to replace her at a hearing pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). when the trial court denied his marsden motion, robinson sought to represent himself. the trial court provided robinson with a faretta1 waiver form, but warned robinson returned his faretta waiver to the court, he had written court asked robinson if he was signing the faretta waiver under duress and coercion. 1 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 3 he be invalid and denied the request for self-representation. the trial court subsequently granted robinsonrenewed faretta request. throughout the proceedings, robinson denied he was the defendant because he did not use all capital letters to spell his capital letters was a corporation. he instead considered himself robinson also filed a number of nonsensical motions, including ones robinson made two oral motions to dismiss his case, which were also denied. at trial, deputy ibarra testified to the facts of the traffic stop as described above. during his testimony, he admitted he on cross-veracity and accuracy in documenting the incident, including his misidentification of robinson as brooks. he also prompted deputy ibarra to admit he was mistaken about the number of deputies at the scene of the traffic stop. robinson elected not to testify. the jury found robinson guilty of possession of metal knuckles. robinson initially failed to appear at sentencing but was later apprehended. he was placed on he was sentenced to time served in county jail, along with six days of community service. the trial court assessed a $40 court security fee (pen. code,  1465.8), a $30 criminal conviction 4 assessment (gov. code,  70373), a $300 restitution fine (pen. code,  1202.4, subd. (b)). it imposed and suspended a $300 probation revocation restitution fine. (pen. code,  1202.44). robinson timely filed a notice of appeal. discussion we appointed counsel to represent robinson on appeal. appointed counsel filed an opening brief pursuant to wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, requesting our independent review of the record for any arguable issues. we notified robinson by letter that he may submit any argument or issues that he wished our court to review. robinson has not filed any claims or arguments. we have independently reviewed the record on appeal. we find appointed counsel has fulfilled his duty and that no arguable issues exist. (wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436; people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: grimes, j. stratton, j. 