 filed 11/21/19 p. v. rivera ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael angel rivera defendant and appellant. b293718 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka113051) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. steven d. blades, judge. affirmed. julie caleca, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and kristen j. inberg, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 factual and procedural background michael angel rivera (appellant) was convicted of grand theft of personal property in violation of penal code1 section 487, subdivision (a). the details surrounding the crime follow. s department conducted bait bike metropolitan transportation authority (mta) gold line train station in azusa. in a bait bike operation, undercover law enforcement leave a bait bicycle at the train station, surveil it, wait until suspects come and steal the bike, then follow and arrest them. on the date in question, undercover deputies left the bait bikea 2013 cannondaleunlocked, leaning against the bicycle rack at the train station. a short period of time later, one of the undercover deputies saw a male ride a bicycle around the a few minutes later, the deputies observed appellant walk up to the bicycle rack and ride away on the bait bike. appellant was stopped and arrested half a block away; he indicated to the arresting officer that he liked bikes and that he took the bike for himself because it was unlocked. on august 2, 2018, trial by jury commenced. the sole issue at trial was whether the value of the bait bike exceeded $950. theft is divided into two categories: grand theft and petty theft. ( 486.) theft of personal property exceeding $950 equates to grand theft, a felony. ( 487, subd. (a).) 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise stated. 3 as to the value of the bicycle, one of the undercover deputies tcondition on the date of the june 30, 2016 operation. the evidence established the 2013 cannondale bait bike was purchased on october 2, 2014 for $1,270.99 from incycle bicycles in pasadena. on december 29, 2016, approximately six months after the undercover operation, the bait bike was appraised at $1,330 by the general manager at incycle, jason chancellor. at trial, chancellor testified as an expert for the prosecution. since 2003, he had worked for incycle, had managed various incycle store locations, and was the general manager of the pasadena location since 2013. chancellor had conducted ir market value of the bicycle, chancellor considered the age of the bike, the condition of the bike, the valuation provided in the bicycle bluebook, as well as how much the bike could be sold for based on the location of the incycle store in questionthe retail value of 30 cucamonga locations. the prosecution rested its case-in-chief on friday, august 3, 2018, and defense counsel notified the court that its expert witness (an employee of giant santa monica bicycle shop) would warecommenced the following monday, august 6, 2018. however, on monday, the defense notified the court that it 4 the court was informed that an employee of incycle, mark farias, posted this tweet via twitter on saturday, august 4, 2018: giant santa monica has an expert defending bike thieves in court. what the fuck. trying to get felons off the hook is [a] betrayal to the bike community. you assholes should be ashamed. defense counsel indicated to the court that her expert learned of the tweet from his boss, the owner of giant santa monica. as a result of the tw[the defense expert] that if his both were associated with this trial, that he would lose his job. defense counsel he would be fired if he testified. consequently, he refused to testify. appellant requested a mistrial, arguing the tweet amounted to witness intimidation and interfered with his constitutional right to a fair trial. defense counsel explained that before taking the stand, chancellor was provided with the jimenez) and place of employment at giant santa monica. y disingenuous for the people to say that incycle, their witness, had nothing to do with this. the information and work information was on there. i understand experts are given the information because they need to know what the opinion of the defense expert is going to be, [and] some 5 people to say that mr. chancellor had nothing to do with this, or aware that mr. jimenez worked for giant santa monica, [i]t the prosecutor admitted giving chancellor the information. she argued no threat was communicated and this was an employment issue between the defense expert and his employer. case while [they] were at the courthouse, not to discuss the case amongst each other, the prosecutor further remarked the defense counsel had not subpoenaed her expert. [jo court. even if he was subpoenaed, the threat issue would have people not to discuss it. there could have been a news reporter in here who could have put out a tweet or done something like that. defense counsel thereafter requested a two-week continuance to secure a new expert, informing the court that she 6 granted the requested continuance. on august 23, 2018, trial resumed. chris demarchi testified as the expert for the defense. demarchi had been in the cycling industry for 29 yearshe began his career working in a bicycle shop and was currently part-owner of a race team and program that provided people the opportunity to join a racing club and purchase/sell bicycle market value of the bait bike, demarchi considered the that would decrease the value of the bike, and he checks craigslist and ebay in addition to the bicycle bluebook. demarchi testified that the store location where tis sold would also affect its sales price. he also testified that a bicycle depreciates in value about 20 percent in its first year, and thereafter appreciates about 15 percent a year. demarchi opined the fair market value of the bait bike was $850 at the time of the theft in june 2016. he testified the bike could not have been worth $1,330 in june 2016 because of depreciation and because some of its components were now obsolete. demarchi had not inspected the bait bike in person, but rather, analyzed a photo of the bait bike. on august 24, 2018, the jury found appellant guilty of grand theft of personal property. on october 5, 2018, he was sentenced to two years in state prison. appellant timely appealed. 7 discussion appellant argues the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion for a mistrial. appellant contends mistrial should have been granted because his right to a fair trial was [chancellor], which resulted in witness intimidation and sixth amendment right to present a a. standard of review and applicable law only when a chances of receiving a fair trial have been irreparably damaged, and we use the deferential abuse of discretion standard to review a trial court ruling denying a mistrial. (people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 990.) the defendant bears the burden to show the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion for a mistrial. (people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 437.) has occurred which is too serious to be corrected, and therefore the trial must be terminated, so that proceedings can begin (blumenthal v. superior court (2006) 137 cal.app.4th 672, 678, italics omitted.) attendance of witnesses, as guaranteed by the sixth amendment, and to due process, as guaranteed by the fourteenth amendment, are violated when the prosecution interferes with people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 460; people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 456.) such violative prosecutorial misconduct olves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to 8 people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 841; see also people v. adams (2014) 60 cal.4th 541, 568.) prosecutorial misconduct will not result in reversal of a conviction unless it is reasonably probable an outcome more favorable to the defendant would have been obtained in the absence of the misconduct. (people v. milner (1988) 45 cal.3d 227, 245, overruled on another ground in people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 686, fn. 13.) defendant bears the burden of demonstrating at least a reasonable possibility that the witness could have given testimony that would have been both material and favorable; that the prosecution engaged in activity that was entirely unnecessary to the proper performance of its duties and of such a character as to transform a defense witness from a willing witness to one who would refuse to testify; and a causal link between that misconduct and his inability to present witnesses on his own behalf.people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 343.) prosecutorial misconduct, i.e., conduct that was entirely unnecessary to the proper performance of the prosecutors duties and was of such a nature as to transform a defense witness willing to testify into one unwilling to testify. (people v. lucas, supra, 12 cal.4th at p. 457must establish the prosecutors misconduct was a substantial cause in depriving the defendant of the witnesss testimony. [citation.] the defendant, however, is not required to prove that the conduct under challenge was the direct or exclusive cause. [citations.] rather, he need only show that the conduct was a substantial cause. (ibid.) and 9 the defendant must show the testimony he was unable to present was material to his defense.(ibid.) b. analysis appellant cannot show that the prosecution interfered with his right to present a witness as a result of witness intimidation. based on the record before us, we do not see any actions by witnesses or right to a fair trial. the prosecution instructed its expert witness, cwere at the courthouse, not to discuss the case amongst each decision nonetheless to discuss the case with an employee who later tweeted about it amounts to prosecutorial misconduct. the prosecution did its part to ensure the witness does not discuss the case. control. would be fired if he testified). had appellant subpoenaed jimenez, the trial court would have been well in its power to order him to testify; the trial court said as much during the hearing on august 6, 2018. appellanunfair or interfered with his right to present witnesses on his as not irreparably damaged; he indicated to the court at the august 6, 10 fy , indeed, he did so by the time trial resumed two weeks later. appellant argues now that he was prejudiced because the credentials of his second expert were not as good as the credentials of hitainted by the tweet, implying that the second expert was not up to snuff. we are not persuaded and there is nothing in the record to support that argument. if anything, the jury could have found the proinvolvement in setting the price of the bait bike when it was problem by giving him exactly what he asked fora two-week continuance to retain a new expert. nothing in the record indicates appellant was prejudiced in any way. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports stratton, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. 