 filed 8/21/19 p. v. liebensperger ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. george liebensperger, defendant and appellant. b293320 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba452205) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, norman j. shapiro and craig j. mitchell, judges. affirmed. richard l. fitzer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie c. brenan and lindsay boyd, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 george liebensperger was convicted by jury on one count of battery upon a custodial officer in violation of penal code section 243.1.1 appellant contends he was not competent to stand trial and requests a limited remand for the trial court to conduct a retrospective competency hearing. he further contends that the imposition of fees and fines without determining whether he had the ability to pay violated his right to due process, pursuant to people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157 (dueas). although the trial court declared a doubt as to his competency after trial, we find no evidence to hearing before or during trial. we further conclude that appellant has waived his dueas claim. therefore, we affirm. factual and procedural background in may 2016, liebensperger was housed in the twin towers correctional facility, which primarily houses mental health patients. ephraim udarbe worked as a custody assistant at the facility. one of his duties was to count the inmates in their cells. around 7:00 p.m. on may 31, 2016, udarbe was counting the inmates bags so that no one could see into the cell. udarbe knocked on the window and when there was no response, he thought there was a medical problem, so . when he opened the tray slot, throwing some type of liquid on him.2 the liquid 1 unspecified statutory references will be to the penal code. 2 gassing is a term used in the jail when an inmate throws a liquid such as urine or urine mixed with feces at staff members, usually using a milk or orange juice carton. 3 hit udarbe in the face and dripped down his body, causing a burning pain in his eyes. deputy antonio salceda saw udarbe walking toward him with his eyes shut tight and liquid on his face and hair. salceda approached udarbe, who told salceda he had been gassed by cell seven. salceda saw that the windows of cell seven were covered by trash and paper. sergeant edward fitzgerald was working at the twin towers correctional facility at the time, and he received a notification of an assault on a staff member. windows had been covered. he ordered appellant to remove the items from the windows, but appellant did not respond. fitzgerald used a pepper spray fogger to try to convince appellant to comply because fitzgerald wanted to enter the cell to look for evidence of the assault, such as a milk carton. appellant refused to comply, at one point saying that he would die before coming out of the cell. fitzgerald interpreted this to mean that appellant wanted deputies to enter the cell and fight with him. after a psychologist and an extraction team arrived, the deputies were able to remove appellant from his cell and place a spit hood over his head. deputies f appellant was charged in an amended information with count 1, battery against a custodial officer ( 243.1), and count 2, resisting an executive officer ( 69). the information further alleged that appellant had suffered two prior convictions of serious felonies ( 667.5, subd. (c), 1192.7) and two prior strikes ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and had served two prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the jury found appellant guilty of count 1 and not guilty of count 2. after the jury was excused, defense counsel indicated that appellant had two 4 cases pending in two different courtrooms. the trial court therefore decided to put the matter over for sentencing until the other matters were resolved. in april 2017, the trial judge in declared and ordered forensic psychiatrist risa grand to examine appellant. dr. grand examined appellant on april 25, 2017, and her may report concluded that he was not competent to stand trial. based on that report, on may 30, the trial court in the instant case suspended proceedings pursuant to section 1368. appellant was sent to patton state hospital where he received antipsychotic medication. on october 24, 2017, the medical director at patton certified appellant as competent to stand trial under section 1372. the trial court found appellant competent and resumed the proceedings. appellant waived his right to a jury trial and admitted the prior conviction allegations. the trial court sentenced appellant to the mid term of two years, doubled for a total of four years. the court imposed a $40 court operations assessment, a $30 criminal conviction assessment and a $300 restitution fine, and imposed and stayed a $300 parole revocation fine. appellant timely appealed. discussion i. competence to stand trial appellant contends there was substantial evidence that he was s failure to suspend the trial proceedings under section 1368 or vacate the jury verdict constituted reversible error. we disagree. 5 or convicting a criminal defendant who is mentally incompetent to stand trial. [citations.] section 1367 of the penal code, incorporating the applicable constitutional standard, specifies that a person is incompetent to defendant is unable to understand the nature of the criminal proceedings or [citations.] suspended and competency proceedingdefense counsel concurs [citation]. [the california supreme court] has construed that provision, in conformity with the requirements of federal present sanity if he comes forward with substantial evidence that he is incapable, because of mental illness, of understanding the nature of the proceedings against him or of assubstantial evidence appears, a doubt as to the sanity of the accused exists, no matter how persuasive other evidencetestimony of prosecution may be to the . . . [s]ubstantial evidence for this purpose is evidence [citations.]people v. rodas (2018) 6 cal.5th 219, 230-231 (rodas).) is less than substantial, . . . [i]t is within the discretion of the trial judge people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 6 701, 742 (welch).) hearing is not a subjective one, but rather a doubt determined objectively from the record. [citation.] thus, we must determine whether a reasonable jurist, with the benefit of the available information, would have developed a people v. johnson (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 267, 276 (johnson).) appellant relies on the following to argue there was evidence of his incompetency to stand trial: (1) he was housed in a mental health facility in the county jail at the time of his offense and during trial; (2) he had to be forcibly extracted from his cell the repeated use of pepper spray and the use of a spit hood; and (3) less than a month after the jury verdict, the court ordered forensic psychiatrist risa grand to examine appellant. the fact that appellant was housed in a mental health facility is not evidence of incompetency to stand trial that would trigger a duty to hold a must exhibit more than a preexisting psychiatric condition that has little bearing on the question of whether the defendant can assist defense counsel. in re sims (2018) 27 cal.app.5th 195, 208.) establish the existence of a mental illness that could conceivably affect his people v. ghobrial (2018) 5 cal.5th 250, 270.) health facility therefore does not raise a reasonable doubt regarding his ability to understand the proceedings. incompetency to stand trial. the circumstances of his offense do not indicate 7 that appellant lacked the mental acuity to see, hear and digest the evidence, and the ability to communicate with counsel in helping prepare an effective defense. (johnson, supra, 21 cal.app.5th at p. 276.) similarly, the fact that appellant was found incompetent after the trial does not establish that he was incompetent during the trial. the at the time it was made, . . . and not by reference to evidence produced at a later date(welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 739, italics added; see also people v. smith (2003) 110 cal.app.4th 492, 505 [noting that occurring when a defendant is presumed competent and the finding of doubt as to competency can be a very brief time period, proximity of time ].) the evidence that appellant was found incompetent after trial does not necessarily suggest that he was incompetent during trial. appellant has not pointed to anything in the record that would indicate s, of understanding the rodas, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 231; see johnson, supra, 21 cal.app.5th at p. 276 hearing is not a subjective one, but rather a doubt determined objectively (people v. turner (2004) 34 cal.4th 406, 425.) there is nothing in the record that indicates appellant was unable to understand the nature of the proceedings or assist in his defense. in fact, at one point, defense counsel informed the court that e does like to have a very active role in his own defense, and i have included him in every 8 similarly, when the trial court explained to appellant that he had a right to a jury trial on the prior conviction allegations and asked if he had discussed the issue with his attorney, appellant replied that he had discussed it with his attorney and wanted to waive his right to a jury trial. the record thus consult with his lawyer with a reaand ha[d] (people v. hightower (1996) 41 cal.app.4th 1108, 1112.) because there was no evidence sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt about the trial court did not err in failing to hold a competency hearing. ii. dueas appellant contends that he is indigent and that the trial court violated his right to due process by imposing assessments and a restitution fine without determining his ability to pay. he relies on dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th 1157, to argue that we should vacate the assessments and impose a stay of the restitution fine until the people prove he has the ability to pay. the people contend, and we agree, that appellant has forfeited the issue by failing to raise it below. appellant did not object in the trial court based on the inability to pay. he contends the issue is not forfeited on appeal because the issue is a legal issue that can be raised for the first time on appeal. he further contends that it would have been futile to object in the trial court because dueas represented a dramatic and unforeseen change in the law governing assessments and restitution fines. 9 we agree with our colleagues in division eight of this appellate district and conclude that failure to object in the trial court resulted in forfeiture of this issue. (see people v. frandsen (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 1126, 1153-1155 (frandsen); see also people v. bipialaka (2019) 34 cal.app.5th 455, 464 [defendant forfeited dueas issue by failing to object to fees or fine in the trial court].) s assertion, whether a defendant has the ability to pay presents a factual issue, not a pure question of law based on undisputed facts. moreover, similar to frandsenthe sentencing hearing indicates that [appellant] was foreclosed from making the same request that the defendant in dueas made in the face of those same mandatory asfrandsen, supra, 33 cal.app.5th at p. 1154.) as frandsen reasoned, dueas was foreseeable. dueas (ibid.) we therefore reject argument that any objection would have been futile. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: manella, p. j. currey, j. 