filed 11/22/19 p. v. figueroa ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jorge figueroa, defendant and appellant. b294149 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba456753) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, renee f. korn, judge. affirmed. david dworakowski, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 defendant jorge figueroa was convicted of three crimes against his ex-girlfriend, jerusalem. on appeal, he challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support a great bodily injury enhancement alleged in connection with the crime of assault likely to cause great bodily injury. we conclude that evidence that defendant choked jerusalem until she lost consciousness was sufficient to support the enhancement. we further reject hearing before the trial court can impose restitution fines and court assessment fees. we affirm the judgment. procedural background in a seven-count second amended information, defendant was charged with four counts of injuring a girlfriend, in violation of penal code1 section 273.5, subdivision (a) (counts 1, 3, 5, and 6); assault likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(4)), with an enhancement that defendant inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd.(e)) (count 2); second degree robbery ( 211) (count 4); and dissuading a witness from prosecuting a crime ( 136.1, subd. (b)(2)) (count 7). the victim identified in each count was jerusalem. prosecution witnesses included jerusalem, her best friend, t, and an expert who described the cycle of domestic violence. numerous witnesses testified for the defense, including defendant. that jerusalem punched her in the face and bit her arm. 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code. 3 jurors convicted defendant of a lesser included charge of battery on count 1. jurors convicted defendant on count 2 of assault likely to produce great bodily injury with the great bodily injury enhancement. those crimes occurred on the same day, and the prosecutor distinguished them during closing argument, jerusalem to the point she lost consciousness.2 the prosecutor argued that jerusbodily injury. in addition to counts 1 and 2, jurors convicted defendant of one count of injuring a girlfriend (count 3). the trial court dismissed the charge of dissuading a witness from testifying (count 7), and jurors acquitted defendant of the remaining charges. the trial court sentenced defendant to an aggregate term of five years in prison and six months in county jail. the court ordered defendant to pay a $750 restitution fine, $120 in court security assessments, and $90 in criminal conviction assessments.3 from state prison earnings. the court imposed and stayed a parole revocation fine. defendant timely appealed from the judgment. 2 the prosecutor earlier advocated the same theory with defense counsel and the trial court. 3 the restitution fine consisted of $150 for the misdemeanor and $300 for each felony. these are the minimum amounts required under section 1202.4, subdivision (b)(1).) the court security assessment and criminal conviction assessment were $40 and $30, respectively, for each conviction. 4 factual background evidence, we describe the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment. (people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) we summarize only those facts relevant to the issues on appeal. defendant and jerusalem dated for over a year and lived together for much of that time. 1. misdemeanor battery (lesser included offense injury to a girlfriend) (count 1) on april 24, 2017, after they argued, jerusalem, who was in the kitchen, picked up a glass in an effort to protect herself face and punched her in the face. jerusalem suffered scratches and lacerations to her face. one of the lacerations resulted in a scar on jerusalemfollowing the incident. jerusalem was afraid that her eye had been damaged. 2. assault likely to cause great bodily injury and great bodily injury enhancement (count 2) on april 24, 2017, jerusalem did not want to answer became aggressive and strangled jerusalem. he held his hands around her neck for a minute or two. jerusalem lost consciousness, and she felt dizzy and numb. afterwards, she told defendant, [y] 5 3. injury to a girlfriend (count 3) on august 31, 2017, defendant and jerusalem were walking back to their apartment. defendant believed jerusalem was dating another person and became jealous. defendant punched jerusalem in her face, and she fell to the ground. ground holding her hair. jerusalem cut her face and shoulder on the pavement. 4. imposition of fines and fees without objection, at the sentencing hearing, the trial court imposed the fines and fees enumerated above. defendant did not argue that he lacked the ability to pay and according to his defendant testified that he had $500 in his drawer at the time he defendant regularly kept money in his drawer. discussion defendant argues (1) no substantial evidence supported the great bodily injury finding; and (2) the trial court had to conduct an ability to pay hearing before ordering defendant to pay the imposed fines and fees. his arguments are unpersuasive. a. substantial evidence supported the great bodily injury enhancement defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support the great bodily injury enhancement. harm resulting to the victim . . . constitutes great bodily injury is a question of fact . . . . [citation.] if there is sufficient evidence to sustain the . . . finding . . . , we are bound to accept it, even 6 though the circumstances might reasonably be reconciled with a (people v. wolcott (1983) 34 cal.3d 92, 107.) here, substantial evidence supported the section 12022.7, subdivision (f) describes great bodily subd. (f).) defendant admits that great bodily injury has the same meaning as serious bodily injury, which includes loss of consciousness. essentially equivalent people v. wade (2012) 204 cal.app.4th 1142, 1149.) although procuring medical treatment is relevant, it is not a prerequisite to a finding of great bodily injury. (id. at p. 1150.) based on evidence that jerusalem lost consciousness when defendant was strangling her, jurors could have concluded she suffered great bodily injury.4 4 in challenging the sufficiency of the evidence, defendant misidentifies the relevant assault as the incident when he lacerations did not constitute substantial evidence to support the great bodily injury enhancement. according to defendant, lacerations to her face, which did not require sutures or other medical care to treat or repair related to the incident when defendant strangled jerusalem after she refused to give defendant information about a telephone call she had received. 7 b. ability to pay fines and fees citing people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157 (dueas), defendant argues: the trial court erred in imposing because the court did not find he had a in dueas, an unemployed, homeless mother with cerebral palsy lost her drivers license when she was unable to pay over $1,000 for three juvenile citations. (dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at pp. 11601161.) thereafter she received multiple convictions related to driving with a suspended license, each accompanied by jail time and additional fees she could not afford to pay. (id. at p. 1161.) the trial court rejected dueasrequest to hold an ability to pay hearing despite undisputed evidence that she was indigent. (id. at p. 1163.) the appellate court reversed, holding that due process prohibited imposing the same assessments imposed in the current case and required the trial court to stay execution of the restitution fines until the trial court held an ability to pay hearing. (dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at p. 1164.) the court dueas t stem from one case for which shes not minal proceedings driven by, and contributing to, dueas (id. at pp. 11631164.) counterproductive nature of this system and its tendency to enmesh indigent defendants in a cycle of repeated violations and escalating (id. at p. 1164, fn. 1.) 8 dueas is misplaced for three reasons. first, following people v. hicks (2019) 40 cal.app.5th 320, this court has held that dueas was wrongly decided because it misapplied due process precedents. (people v. kingston (oct. 21, 2019, b293920) __ cal.app.5th __ [2019 cal.app.lexis 1038].) second, this case is distinguishable from dueas because defendant does not face incarceration because of his inability to pay fines and fees. he is incarcerated because of his conduct towards jerusalem. (see people v. caceres (2019) 39 cal.app.5th 917, 928 [declining to apply dueas finally, defendant testified that he has made money and that he had $500 in his drawer when incarcerated. in addition, he will earn wages while on appeal that he had an inability to pay the imposed fines and fees. (people v. kingston, supra, __ cal.app.5th __ at p. ___ [2019 cal.app.lexis at p. *7] [no due process violation in part because record indicated defendant had the ability to pay fee].) in short, defendant fails to demonstrate the trial court erred in not conducting an ability to pay hearing. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. johnson, j. 