filed 11/25/19 p. v. galvez ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david a. galvez, a minor, defendant and appellant. b294969 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka070312) appeal from a postjudgment order of the superior court of the county of los angeles, robert m. martinez, judge. reversed and remanded for further proceedings. chris r. redburn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, noah p. hill and corey j. robins, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction defendant david a. galvez was convicted of two counts of gang-related murder and sentenced consecutively to life without the possibility of parole on each count, plus an additional 25-years-to-life gun use enhancement on each count. following remand to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the gun use enhancements under penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (h),1 the trial court did not strike the enhancements. on appeal, defendant contends that the record of the hearing on his request to strike the enhancements shows that the trial court relied on speculation and failed to consider his youth offender status in deciding whether to strike the enhancements. according to defendant, the trial court suggested that he acted with a state of mind unsupported by the evidence and affirmatively stated that it did not want to convey a message or foster the s youth and impulsivity should be considered in ruling on the request to strike. because the record on appeal is ambiguous concerning whether the trial court relied on matters outside the record or adequately offender status in ruling on the request to strike, we remand for further proceedings to allow the trial court to consider whether to strike the enhancements under section 1385. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 ii. factual background2 a. the shootings defendant was a member of the pomona sur olive street gang. pomona sur olives main rival was the 12th street sharkies street gang, which also claimed territory in pomona. one of defendants gang associates, jorge hernandez, previously had been wounded in a drive-by shooting during which another pomona sur olive gang member had been killed. members of pomona sur olive believed that the 12th street sharkies gang was responsible for the shootings. on sunday, march 20, 2005, at approximately 11:00 a.m., daniel gomez borrowed his fathers black honda. gomez drove defendant and hernandez to washington park, where defendant and hernandez told him to stop. gomez knew that washington park was the territory of the 12th street sharkies. gomez saw two men in the park near a fence. threw up a gang sign, although gomez did not know from what gang. defendant exited the car, took out a short rifle, and walked up to the two men. hernandez told defendant to shoot, and defendant shot one of the men, naftali flores, once. defendant reentered the car and gomez drove away. flores died at the scene from a gunshot wound to his right side. a .22-caliber bullet was recovered from his body. the pomona police department also recovered a single .22-caliber 2 the factual background is taken from the unpublished opinion by a panel of this division in people v. galvez (aug. 22, 2007, b194868 [nonpub. opn.]) which affirmed 4 shell casing from the scene. a wall near where flores was shot was marked with 12th street sharkies gang graffiti and graffiti deprecating pomona sur olive. gomez drove away from the park for a minute or so, until they passed a young man, anthony lopez, on a bicycle. defendant and hernandez again told gomez to stop, and defendant again exited the car. the guy on the bike threw up gang signs. defendant fired the rifle, and gomez saw lopez go down.3 defendant reentered the car and the trio fled back to gomezs house. lopez died at the scene from a gunshot wound to the head. a .22-caliber bullet was recovered from lopezs body. the police recovered three .22-caliber shell casings from the scene. b. the sentence as noted, the trial court sentenced defendant to life without the possibility of parole on each of the two counts of special circumstance first-degree murder. the trial court also imposed an additional 25-years-to-life term on each count for the gun use enhancements. a hunting trip for people to shoot and kill, motivated only by gang loyalties, ties, and distorted amusement, the trial court found the crimes occurred in separate locations and at different times, and therefore ordered the sentences on the two murder counts to run consecutively. the trial court struck the gang enhancements. 3 an eyewitness saw a black car approach a young man on a bicycle. a man with a rifle exited the car. the witness heard shots and saw lopez fall to the ground. 5 iii. postjudgment proceedings a. initial appeal on august 22, 2007, a panel of this division affirmed us murders, taking the lives of two young men for no reasons other b. habeas petition in 2015, defendant filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus in the trial court seeking a resentencing hearing under miller v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. 460 (miller).4 the trial court granted the petition and conducted a sentencing hearing at which the court c. second appeal on november 14, 2016, defendant filed a notice of appeal resentencing request. following briefing on other issues, for remand to conduct a record development hearing under people v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261 (franklin), defendant filed with 4 the record copy of the unpublished opinion of a panel of this division in people v. galvez (feb. 22, 2018, b279420 [unpub. opn.]) is missing several pages. we therefore grant the attorney tice of the entire opinion. 6 permission a supplemental brief arguing that under newly enacted section 12022.53, subdivision (h), effective january 1, 2018, he was entitled to a remand so the trial court could exercise its discretion to resentence him by striking the two 25-years-to-life gun use enhancements imposed on his original sentence. on february 22, 2018, a panel of this division issued an unpublished opinion that g resentencing under miller, supra, 567 u.s. 460 and the eighth amendment was moot; (2) denied hearing under franklin as unnecessary due to the record developed in the habeas proceeding under miller; and (3) conditionally reversed and remanded the order denying resentencing for the limited purpose of allowing the court to consider whether it was appropriate under the facts and circumstances of this case to exercise its discretion to strike the gun use enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivision (h). d. hearing under section 12022.53, subdivision (h) following remand, defendant filed a brief in the trial court exhibits relevant to sentenced defendant and youth offender parole hearing (pen.code, secs. 1203.1, 3051, 4801, 12022.53, [subdivision] (h) and []franklin[, supra,] 63 cal.4th 261.) notwithstanding the denial on appeal of his request to remand this matter for a record development hearing under franklin, defendant asserted that his franklin 7 court is considering the exercise of its discretion under []section 12022.53, subdivision (h) as to whether the gun use enhancements should be stricken, the court must consider defendant requested that the trial court strike the gun enhancements as to both counts.5 section 12022.53, subdivision (h) request to strike the gun use enhancements, arguing that due to the circumstances of not further the interest of justice to strike those enhancements. at the hearing on the motion to strike the gun use enhancements, affected his judgment and made him more vulnerable to peer pressure and less culpable than his older gang-member accomplices. at one point, significance of the requested order striking the enhancements, defense counsel suggested that striking the gun use enhancements would send a message to the parole board that [to strike the enhancements] also sends a message to the parole board that this was a young, impulsive person who has responsibility but maybe there is an equitable difference, . . . . i think that is the significance. it lets the parole board also . . . know that this 5 defendant attached to his brief his sentencing memorandum in support of his habeas petition under miller, supra, 567 u.s. 460, with its voluminous exhibits, including articles about the diminished culpability of youth offenders. 8 courtin reviewing the totality and the history of the circumstances of this case, [concluded] that . . . as a youthful and i think that is the message to the parole board something the parole board can consider. [] . . . [] . . . [i]t would. . . send a very clear indication that this court recognizes that it can exercise its discretion and there were factors here that do mitigate in terms of what the law permits the court to do, that do mitigate and do (italics added.) after hearing the arguments of counsel, the trial court found that striking the gun use enhancements would not be in the interest of earlier expressed its views as to the crimes that were committed by [defendant], and that was in the writ of habeas corpus [proceeding] . . . . [] as a hunt, a hunt to kill people. and the court expressed wonder about what happened in the car after the first shooting but prior to the second one? was there an appreciation of what happened? was there laughter? was there terror? but [defendant], having assassinated one person only minutes earlier, gets out of the car again and killed someone. and after the second killing, one wonders again what took place in the vehicle. high fives? praise? an increase [in] respect for [defendant]? [defendant] was told to shoot. he walked right up to the person and put the gun to his head as he did in the second one. [] juveniles can be impulsive. my own experience on the bench of 34 years and 10 years of practice before tells me that minors killing multiple people on understand [the significance of] striking . . . the [gun] use 9 allegation . . . of incarceration, whether [the sentence enhancements] are there or not. and if it serves as a message from the court acknowledging his impulsivity t want to be a party to participating in that perception . . . . interest of justice is promoted by striking the personal use of a firearm to assassinate two individuals that were perceived to be possibly gang rivals. two innocent persons[,] [including o]ne who was not even associated with any criminal street gang[,] lost their lives. [] . . . [] in any event, the court does not find that the interest of justice will be promoted by the striking of the [gun] use allegations(italics added.) iv. discussion defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion when it refused to strike the gun use enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivision (h). according to defendant, the record of the hearing shows that the trial court first [ed]then expressed a willingness to ignore his youth and impulsivity by stating that it did not want to participate in the perceptionrs influenced the decision on the request to strike. 10 a. legal principles and standard of review effective january 1, 2018, the legislature amended section 12022.53, subdivision (h),6 to provide trial courts with discretion to strike or dismiss section 12022.53 firearm enhancements in the interest of justice pursuant to [s]its discretion under section 1385, a trial court considers factors s rights, the interests of society, and individualized considerations pertaining to the defendant and his or her offenses and background. (people v. rocha (2019) 32 cal.app.5th 352, 359.) aconsider the nature and circumstances of the defecrimes, the defendanpeople v. orabuena (2004) 116 cal.app.4th 84, 99.) the denial of a motion to dismiss pursuant to section 1385 is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 376.) a trial court does not abuse its discretion unless its decision is so irrational or arbitrary that no reasonable person could agree with it. (id. at p. 377) the trial court is presumed to have acted to achieve legitimate sentencing objectives, and its discretionary determination to impose a particular sentence will not be set aside on review, absent the required showing of abuse of discretion. (id. at pp. 376377.) 6 the court may, in the interest of justice pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may occur pursuant to any other law. 11 s power under section 1385, while broad, is by no means absolute. (people v. orin (1975) 13 cal.3d 937, 945.) abuse of discretion may be shown where the court was not aware of the scope of its discretion pursuant to section 1385 or considered impermissible factors in exercising its power to strike or dismiss an enhancement. (people v. lee (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 124, 132; people v. orabuena, supra, 116 cal.app.4th at pp. 99100.) people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354, 1391.) b. analysis the request to strike, it is unclear whether the trial court relied on matters outside the record or adequately considered -related factors in ruling on that request. initially, the court seemed to wonder about the conduct and mental state of defendant and his accomplices in their car prior to and following the second murder. whether such wonder the remarks at least suggest that the court may have relied upon matters that had not been proven at trial and were not otherwise reasonable inferences to be drawn from the trial evidence. also problematic a 12 in context, those comments may have been a direct response to s about sending a message to the parole board, they are also susceptible to an interpretation that the court did not consider adequately the particulars of when ruling on the request to strike. because the record is ambiguous on whether the trial court considered matters outside the record or failed to give due strike the sentence enhancements, remand for further proceedings is appropriate.7 such a procedure will allow the court to articulate clearly the reasoning underlying its decision on the request to strike the enhancements in light of, among other appropriate factors, the trial evidence and at the time he committed the offenses in issue. 7 in addition to requesting reversal based on the order denying his request to strike the gun use enhancements, defendant requests that we order the trial court to impose two concurrent 25-years-to-life sentences, instead of the consecutive sentences originally imposed. but that request for relief is beyond the scope of this appeal which, by definition, is limited to the one issue before the trial court on the remand under section 12022.53, subdivision (h), i.e., whether striking the gun use enhancements would be in the interest of justice. 13 v. disposition the order denying the request to strike the gun use enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivision (h) is reversed and remanded for the trial court to take into consideration all appropriate factors in determining whether to strike the enhancements in the interest of justice under section 1385. not to be published in the official reports kim, j. we concur: rubin, p. j. moor, j. 