 filed 11/25/19 p. v. ahmad ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. mohamad tarek ahmad, defendant and appellant. b294491 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba465261) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, leslie a. swain, judge. affirmed. william paul melcher, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and kristen j. inberg, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 mohamad tarek ahmad appeals following his convictions by jury of assault on a peace officer (pen. code,  245, subd. (c); count 1)1 and evading a peace officer (veh. code,  2800.2, subd. (a); count 2). in a bifurcated court proceeding, ahmad admitted he suffered two prior serious felony convictions, constituting strikes ( 667, subds. (a), (b)-(i), 1170.12). the trial court sentenced ahmad to 14 years and four months in state prison. on appeal, ahmad argues that his trial counsel conceded , and that concession was tantamount to a guilty plea. ahmad claims he objected to this concession, and the absence of a knowing and intelligent waiver of his constitutional trial rights before what amounted to a guilty plea requires reversal of his conviction on count 2. we reject this claim, and affirm. factual and procedural background a. offense conduct on february 3, 2018, two los angeles police department (lapd) officers were patrolling in a marked police vehicle in southwest los angeles. about 1:30 a.m., they saw ahmad driving a toyota camry. ahmad was driving on the wrong side of the street and failed to stop for red lights. a woman opened a passenger door of the camry and screamed for help. the officers activated their emergency lights and sirens to conduct a traffic stop; a pursuit ensued. officer tyler hadden and his partner then joined the pursuit in their own marked police car. additional patrol vehicles as well as a police helicopter eventually joined in the pursuit. 1 all unspecified statutory references are to the penal code. 3 ahmad crashed into a building at vermont avenue and 50th street. as officer hadden was getting out of his police car, ahmad looked behind him, saw police vehicles, and accelerated in reverse. officer hadden attempted to get back in his car; the camry collided with officer while the officer still had one foot on the ground. the collision forced the car door closed. ahmad drove away; the pursuit continued through south central and mid-city los angeles, eventually ending in north hollywood. the evidence further showed that on a prior occasion in 2010, ahmad drove a tow truck into a los angeles county sheriff , after the deputy had activated his overhead lights. ahmad struck the patrol car twice more with the truck during a later pursuit, when the patrol ights and siren were operating. ahmad presented no defense evidence. b. opening statement during opening statement, there are two counts, count 1 is the assault on a peace officer. the count 2 is evading. this trial is not going to be about count 2. this trial is going to be about count 1 and the question that we will ask you to answer by the end of the trial is going to be was this intentional or was this accidental? so you are going to hear from some of the officers and you will see a number of video clips occurred. the collision that occurred took, approximately, 5 to 10 seconds and by the end of this trial you will not have enough evidence to show that this was intentional, but that this was accidental. for that reason, mr. ahmad will be not guilty of 4 c. proceedings following the close of evidence 1. statements to the jury and the court as defense counsel foretold, the jury was played videos of the pursuit from two dash-cams, and from an officer body-cam. before the jury instructions and closing argument, ahmad attempted to address the courtroom. the court admonished him not to speak, but he nevertheless proclaimed the prosecutorthis is a three strikes case.then sent the jury into the jury room. after the jury left the courtroom, ahmad stated: saying, your honor, they have to know once they bring that up just saying. you have to explain that to the jury. you are not trying . . . to create a mistrial. from a accelerate it on a manslaughter. the court attempted to get ahmad to stop talking, but permission to instruct [the jury] so they know.informed ahmad: inappropriate.to know about the law, that instead of charging me for a vehicle accidentto assault on a peace officer. the court told ahmad: your lawyer 5 closing argument, but this outburst of yours is unacceptable. the court later admonished the jury to disregard anything ahmad had said. 2. closing argument during closing argument, told the jury[lapd o]fficers . . . were in pursuit of a green toyota camry that led them on a chase from hoover and vernon in south los angeles to santa monica boulevard, . . . and western avenue in north hollywood. mr. ahmad is guilty of count 2. so talk ab defense counsel then argued with the patrol car was an accident, because ahmad did not know the car was there when he began reversing. she also urged and shock, was not guilty on count 1. defense counsel also commented: adrenalin and shock as well as with regard to count 2 she argued ahmad was operating under the influence of adrenalin, shock, and stress; his reaction after going into reverse therefore 2 discussion was tantamount to a guilty plea to which hplea . . . is an event of signal significance in a criminal 2 the court, using calcrim no. 2181, instructed the jury on the elements of count 2. element no. 2 was: who was also driving a motor vehicle, willfully fled from, or tried to elude, the officer, in 6 proceeding. . . . accordingly, counsel lacks authority to consent to . . . florida v. nixon (2004) 543 u.s. 175, 187 [125 s.ct. 551, 160 l.ed.2d 565] (nixonthe event of a guilty plea or other conduct tantamount to a plea, intelligently waived his constitutional trial people v. lopez (2019) 31 cal.app.5th 55, 63 (lopez).) in people v. cain (1995) 10 cal.4th 1, our supreme court concede, guilt on one or more charges . . . is not tantamount to a guilty plea . . . id. at p. 30.) the united states supreme court later agreed with this holding of cain. (see nixon, supra, 543 u.s. 175.) ahmad argues two more recent casesmccoy v. louisiana (2018) ___ u.s. ___ [138 s.ct. 1500, 200 l.ed.2d 821] (mccoy) and people v. farwell (2018) 5 cal.5th 295 (farwell) found concessions of the type his counsel made tantamount to a guilty plea, and required his explicit consent. as the record here does not contain evidence of such explicit consent, ahmad argues his conviction on count 2 must be reversed. in farwell, the parties entered into a stipulation encompassing all elements of one of the charged counts, and the trial court instructed the jury it had to accept those stipulated facts as true. (farwell, supra, 5 cal.5th at pp. 298-299.) the court did not advise the defendant of the constitutional rights implicated by a guilty plea or the stipulation. nor did it solicit a personal waiver of those rights. (id. at p. 299.) our supreme court held the stipulation was tantamount to a guilty plea misdemeanor[, which] ma[d]e the guilty [plea] a foregone id. at p. 308.) thus, although there was still a jury, 7 its role was limitedwhich a jury is presumed to do, it was mandated to find defendant guilty on that count. (id. at p. 300.) in mccoy, the defendant in a death penalty trial explicitly and repeatedly told his counsel not to concede his guilt on murder charges, maintaining he was innocent. (mccoy, supra, ___ u.s. at p. ___ [138 s.ct. at p. 1506].) there was no question counsel knew of the his counsel] telling the jury that [the defen people. (ibid.) even so, during his opening statement and closing argument, in order to maintain credibility with the jury for the penalty phase, counsel told the jury that the defendant was undoubtedly guilty and tha [the] burden off of [the prosecutor]. id. at p. 1507.) the united states that he did not engage in the charged acts and adamantly defense counsel is prohibited from admitting a (id. his criminal acts, his lawyer must abide by that objective and may id. at p. 1509; u.s. const., 6th amend.) in lopez, our colleagues in division four of this district rejected the very argument made by ahmad based on farwell and mccoy. (lopez, supra, 31 cal.app.5th 55.) lopez found farwell no stipulation admitting the elements of the [charges] as an evidentiary matter. instead, the jury was instructed that the prosecution had to prove guilt on all counts beyond a reasonable 8 doubt and that statements by counsel were not evidence. thus, admissible evidence essomething it would not have had to do had the defendant pled guilty. (lopez, supra, at p. 64.) lopez explained courts have repeatedly distinguished between circumstances concerning a concession made during closing argument and a guilty plea or its equivalent. (lopez, supra, 31 cal.app.5th at p. 65.) the rationale of the requirement that the record demonstrate the defendant voluntarily and intelligently waived his or her constitutional trial rights is to ensure a defendant knows of and voluntarily waives three specified rights surrendered by a guilty plea: the right to a jury trial, the opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses against him or her, and the right against self-incrimination. (ibid.) there is and thereby exercises his right toa jury trial and has the opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses against him and to ibid.) here, as in lopez, ahmad retained the rights accorded a (lopez, supra, 31 cal.app.5th at p. 65; accord, nixon, supra, 543 u.s. at p. 188.) ahmad had a jury trial, had the opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses against him, and refused to (lopez, supra, at p. 64.) ac initial concession during closing argument on count 2 (followed by her 9 later disputing guilt on that count by arguing a failure of proof on its was not the equivalent of a guilty plea. lopez found mccoy inapposite on the basis that the defendant in mccoy explicitly and repeatedly told counsel not to concede his guilt, maintaining he was innocent. (lopez, supra, 31 cal.app.5th at pp. 65-66.) while the mccoy court emphasized a s or her case objectives, it also noted that counsel provides assistance on how best to achieve those mccoy, supra, ___ u.s. at p. ___ [138 s.ct. at p. 1508].) part of counsoutcome, if not explicitly opposed by the client, can include conceding guilt as to some charges in order to maintain credibility with the jury to contest other charges. (see, e.g., people v. freeman (1994) 8 cal.4th 45importance of maintaining credibility before the jury, we have repeatedly rejected claims that counsel was ineffective in here, there is nothing in the record suggesting ahmad disagreed with count 2. ahmad never expressly objected to any concession by his counsel of guilt on proceedings after the parties rested but before closing argument asserted that the prosecutor was trying, in count 1, to turn a vehicular accident into an assault upon a peace officer, that this was a three strikes case, and that the court should instruct the jury on these issues. in other words, pertained to count 1 that countnot 10 nor was the concession ill-informed or gratuitous. evading a peace officer in violation of vehicle code section 2800.2, subdivision (a), charged in count 2, is not a serious or violent felony for purposes of the three strikes law ( 667, subd. (e)(2)(c), 667.5, subd. (c), 1170.12, subd. (c)(2)(c), 1192.7, subd. (c)). thus, ahmad could have received a three strikes sentence only on count 1, not count 2. the defense strategy to preserve credibility by not contesting count 2 (a count as to which there was video evidence showing ahmad leading officers in marked cars with their lights and sirens engaged on an extended pursuit from southwestern los angeles to north hollywood), while focusing on the count that posed the greatest sentencing exposure, was a reasonable one. as lopez of mccoyexpressly disagree with a decision relating to his right to control lopez, supra, 31 cal.app.5th at p. 66.) the record before us does not indicate ahmad disagreed as to count 2, and mccoy is therefore inapplicable. (lopez, supra, at p. 66; see also people v. franks (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 883, 891 [mccoy [the defendant] ever made it clear to his counsel (or the court) that the objective of his defense was to maintain innocence, or or any oppositionto his 11 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published weingart, j.* we concur: johnson, acting p. j. bendix, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 