filed 8/30/19 p. v. carnero ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. fernando jay carnero, defendant and appellant. b294298 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va148086) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, honorable roger t. ito, judge. affirmed. _______________ robert somers, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, noah p. hill, and stephanie c. santoro, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted appellant fernando jay carnero of two counts of resisting an officer by force or violence, in violation of penal code section 69, subdivision (a).1 the first count involved ggle with one police officer, officer ana quinones. the second count involved efforts by another officer on the scene, officer gustavo herrera, to assist officer quinones during that struggle. on appeal, carnero argues the evidence does not support his second section 69 conviction. isecond section 69 conviction to stand, carnero must have forcibly resisted officer herreranot just officer quinones. the jury could reasonably infer from the evidence that, when carnero chose to start the car and drive away, he knew doing so placed both officer herrera and officer quinones in immediate physical danger. thus, the record is sufficient to establish that carnero used the car to forcibly resist officer herrera in this way. we conclude this second section 69 conviction. carnero also challenges the $300 minimum restitution fine under section 1202.4, subdivision (b) and $140 in assessment fees . carnero argues that assessing these amounts ability to pay them violates his constitutional rights under people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157 (dueas). on this basis, he requests we remand with instructions that the trial court conduct a hearing to determine whether carnero has the ability to pay the fees and fine imposed. to the extent carnero has not forfeited his ability-to-pay arguments by failing to raise them below, we conclude that dueas is inapplicable on the current record. 1 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 we therefore affirm. factual and procedural background a. incident underlying convictions at about 1:00 a.m. on june 27, 2018, officer maria madrigal saw carnero near a fire that was burning next to a car, and informed him he could not leave the scene until police had investigated the fire. officer quinones and officer herrera arrived to assist. at one point while the officers were preparing to conduct a pat-down search of carnero, carnero managed to run to the car officer quinones ran after him and leaned the upper half of her body into the car and onto carnero, struggling with him over the keys, ignition, and gearshift in an unsuccessful effort to prevent him from leaving. during the struggle, officer herrera attempted to reach into the car to help officer for [officer herrera]. officer herrera next tried to assist officer quinones by sliding the door frame and officer quinonesing the butt of the baton into carnero, in a motion similar to using a pool cue in the process, officer herrera jammed his thumb into the door frame and injured it. carnero never grabbed officer , nor did carnero touch any part of officer body. despite these efforts by officer quinones and officer herrera, carnero ultimately was able to start the car and drive away, before she fell out of the car. the record is unclear as to exactly where officer herrera was when carnero started the car, and 4 whether officer herrera was in contact with the vehicle at that time.2 carnero was found and apprehended later the same day. b. conviction and sentencing a jury found carnero guilty of two counts of resisting an officer by force and violenceone involving officer quinones, and one involving officer herrerain violation of section 69, subdivision (a).3 the court sentenced carnero to 32 months in county jail, a sentence comprised of two years for the count involving officer quinones and eight months for the count involving officer herrera. these reflect the middle term sentence and one-third of the middle term sentence, respectively. the court further ordered carnero to pay (1) the statutory minimum restitution fine of $300 under section 1202.4, subdivision (b); (2) a court operations assessment fee of $40 per conviction under section 1465.8, subdivision (a)(1); and 2 specifically, officer herrera testified that he could not get any part of his body into the car, that at some point after poking carnero with the baton and jamming his thumb against the door, car engine starting, that he observed officer quinones get dragged by the car, and that he himself was not dragged by the car. 3 carnero was initially charged with six counts: assault on an officer with a deadly weapon or likely to cause great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a), count 1); resisting arrest ( 148, subd. (a)(1), count 2); two counts of battery with injury on an officer ( 243, subd. (c)(2), counts 3 and 4); and the two counts of resisting an officer by force and violence noted above ( 69, subd. (a), counts 5 and 6). carnero pleaded not guilty to all counts. after the close of evidence, the prosecution dismissed counts 2, 3, and 4. the jury deadlocked on count 1, and the court declared a mistrial as to that count. 5 (3) a conviction assessment fee of $30 per conviction under government code section 70373, subdivision (a)(1). the court also ordered but stayed a parole revocation restitution fine of $300 under section 1202.45. carnero did not object to the imposition of any fees or fines, nor did he raise the issue of his ability to pay before the trial court. the record contains little information bearing on carnero could not afford private counsel at trial. the probation report indicates he was unemployed at the time of the arrest, and includes an unverified entry (capitalization omitted.) the report further s financial status is unknown due to not being interviewed for th (capitalization omitted.) carnero timely filed a notice of appeal. discussion a. section 69 conviction involving officer herrera the parties do not dispute what happened during the argument regarding his second section 69 conviction thus involves the purely legal question of whether the undisputed facts satisfy the elements of a section 69 violation, and our review is de novo. (poole v. orange county fire authority (2015) 61 cal.4th 1378, 1384; ghirardo v. antonioli (1994) 8 cal.4th 791, 799 [ve facts are undisputed, we are confronted with a question of law and are not bound by the findings section 69 prohibits, in pertinent part, , by the use of force or violence, [a police] officer, in the performance of his or her duty. ( 69, subd. (a).) carnero argues that the evidence is insufficient to support his section 69 violation as to 6 officer herrera, because carnero did not touch officer herrera or direct any force or violence towards officer herrera specifically. but whether carnero directed force at officer herrera is not the relevant inquiry. a iolation of section 69 need not involve any force or violence directed toward the person of [the] officer. rather, . . . force used by a defendant in resisting an s attempt to restrain and arrest the defendant is sufficient to support a conviction.people v. bernal (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 512, 519, italics added; people v. carrasco (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 978, 985986.) employing force or violence to resist an officer can be, but is not necessarily, the same thing as directing force or violence at an officer. in bernal, for example, the court concluded a defendant forcibly resisted an officer when, while the officer was holding on to swung his hips from side to side in an attempt to free himself, causing both men to (bernal, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at pp. 518, 520 [such .) similarly, in carrasco, a kicking, struggling, and a struggle with an officer to avoid arrest constituted resisting the officer by violence. (carrasco, supra, 163 cal.app.4th at pp. 985-986.) in both bernal and carrasco, the defendant was physically resisting the officer in question, but was not necessarily directing force at that officer. although a section 69 violation does not require force be directed at a particular officer, it does require a specific victim; it prohibits not all forcible resistance, but rather forcibly . . . [an] officer..) courts have therefore concluded that a section 69 violation is a de facto against the person, 7 s people v. martin (2005) 133 cal.app.4th 776, 782783.)4 charge of multiple counts of violating a statute is appropriate only where the actus reus prohibited by the statutethe gravamen of the offensehere, forcefully resisting an individual police officerhas been committed more than once (wilkoff v. superior court (1985) 38 cal.3d 345, 349.) section 69 violation regarding officer herrera, we must determine whether carnero resisted officer herreranot just officer quinonesby force or violence. if carnero forcibly resisted only officer quinones, he violated section 69 only once, and his second section 69 conviction involving officer herrera cannot stand. the attorney general argues that by ing in the car fforts to stop him,carnero resisted both officer herrera and officer quinones by force or violence. we disagree that an officer physical efforts to apprehend a defendant canwithout moretransform a effort to flee into resistance by force. 4 for these same reasons, resistance by force or violence that violates section 69 necessarily also reflects an assault and batteryboth crimes with specific victims. (see people v. brown (2016) 245 cal.app.4th 140, 152153 (brown) [assault is a lesser included offense of a section 69 violation by forceful resistance]; see also calcrim no. 2652 & caljic no. 16.141 [defining the words es of a section 69 violation as the terms apply to battery, namely ation of physical force against the person of another,intentional or harmful], italics added.) 8 s decision to start the car under the circumstances reflected in the record, however, warrants further scrutiny. a car can be an instrument of force. (see people v. wright (2002) 100 cal.app.4th 703, 705, 707709 (wright) [intentionally driving pickup truck close to persons with whom defendant had contentious relations constituted assault with a deadly weapon].) indeed, a defendant may commit assaulta lesser included offense of a section 69 violation involving forceful resistance (see brown, supra, 245 cal.app.4th at pp. 152-153)by driving in such a way probably and directly result in the application of physical force uponvictim. (wright, supra, 100 cal.app.4th at pp. 706 & 725 facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize a battery will probably and directly result may be charged as an assault with a .) it follows that a defendant can forcibly resist an officer for the purposes of section 69 by driving away from that officer in a manner the defendant that officer. (wright, supra, at p. 725.) here, the evidence supports a reasonable inference that, when carnero began to drive the car, he was aware that officer herrera was at least close enough to the vehicle that injury to both officer herrera and officer quinones could result from that decision. (wright, supra, 100 cal.app.4th at p. 725.) specifically, even if carnero did not visibly react to officer the jury could reasonably conclude that carnero felt them. and, because officer quinones was struggling with carnero to get the keys and take hold of the gearshift at the same time officer herrera was wielding his baton, the jury could also reasonably infer that carnero knew someone other than officer quinones must be the source of the baton pokesand thus that 9 another officer was close enough to the car to make indirect contact. in this way, the evidence supports that carnero chose to drive away under circumstances he knew put both officer quinones and officer herrera in immediate physical danger. the evidence is therefore sufficient to support a finding that carnero forcefully resisted each of those two officers, and to support section 69 conviction. b. ability to pay determination (dueas argument) carnero next argues that s imposition of a court operations assessment fee, conviction assessment fee, and minimum restitution fine was unconstitutional under dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th 1157, because the court failed to make a presentencing determination that he had the ability to pay these amounts. we disagree. 1. forfeiture the attorney general argues that ca failure to object to the fines and assessments or raise the issue of inability to pay below caused him to forfeit any such argument on appeal. carnero counters that objecting below would have been futile because the fines and fees at issue are statutorily mandated and routinely imposed, and that dueas changed the law in a manner that was not reasonably foreseeable. courts of appeal are divided on the issue. (compare people v. castellano (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 485, 489 [finding no forfeiture, reasoning dueas announced a new anticipated at the time people v. johnson (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 134, 138 [declining to find forfeiture, reasoning that dueas and that the restitution fine statute prohibits courts from staying minimum restitution fine based on inability to pay], 10 with people v. frandsen (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 1126, 11541155 dueas people v. bipialaka (2019) 34 cal.app.5th 455 [same].) we need not weigh in on this debate or determine whether carnero forfeited his dueas argument, however, because dueas is inapplicable on the record before us, for the reasons we discuss below. 2. whether carnero could pay the fees and fine assuming without concluding that dueas was correctly decided, it is inapplicable on the record before us, and thus does not require that carnero be afforded an ability to pay hearing. a. dueas decision dueas concluded that the trial court erred when it imposed fees and a restitution fine on defendant dueasa homeless, unemployed mother of three with cerebral palsydespite the record reflecting her inability to pay those fines and fees. (dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at p. 1162.) dueas had been convicted of driving with a suspended license, and, as a condition of probation, the court imposed the fees and fine at issue when she could not obtain a valid (id. at pp. 11611162.) she had four previous misdemeanor convictions for driving without a valid license, in connection with which she had been assessed other fines and fees she likewise was unable to pay, (id. at pp. 11631164.) the record in dueas thus established dueas persistent state of poverty and inability to pay, barriers to employment and family circumstances that made continued poverty likely, and a cycle of convictions and unpaid fines associated with 11 her indigence. (id. at p. 1163.) the trial court held an ability to pay hearing, but concluded that the fees and fine were mandatory, and that the uncontested evidence of dueasty to pay did not permit the court to stay or waive them. (id. at pp. 11621163.) the court of appeal reversed. the bedrock of its holding was that imposing fines on defendants who lack the ability to pay them has some regarding dueasand that these consequences constitute for those unable to (dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at pp. 1163, 11681169.) specifically, the court discussed both practical and legal consequences that defendants unable to pay face when fines are imposed, but that nonindigent, otherwise-similarly-situated defendants do notriminal justice debt and associated collection practices can damage credit, interfere with a s commitments, such as child support obligations, restrict employment opportunities and otherwise impede reentry and rehabilitation. (id. at p. 1168.) second, the court noted that an indigent probationer who is unable to pay a restitution fine is not statutorily entitled to have the charges against her automatically dismissed upon successful completion of all other terms of probation, and must instead request the court exercise its discretion to dismiss the charges in the interest of justice.5 (dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at pp. 11701171.) by contrast, a probationer who has the ability to pay her restitution fine need not rely on the discretion of the court to receive such relief. 5 as the court of appeal in dueas acknowledged, however, ode section dueas violated makes her ineligible for (dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at p. 1172.) 12 (see  1203.4, subd. (a)(1), duenas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at pp. 1170-1171.) thus, outcome that the indigent one will never be able to obtainthe successful completion of all the terms of probation and the resultant absolute right to relief from the conviction, charges, penalties, and id. at p. 1171.) dueas concludes that, because these consequences flow directly from to payas opposed to from any criminal misconductthey violate the constitutional prohibition on punishment based solely on poverty. (see dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at pp. 11661167, citing in re antazo (1970) 3 cal.3d 100, 108, 115 & bearden v. georgia (1983) 461 u.s. 660, 667668.) in sum, the record in dueas established that imposing fines and fees dueas could not pay would only perpetuate a pre-existing cycle of poverty and additional convictions associated with her indigence. on these facts, the court of appeal concluded that constituted additional punishment based solely on poverty and thus rises to the level of a state and federal due process violation. b. dueas is inapplicable the instant case is distinguishable from dueas. the court of appeal noted that dueasof criminal proceedings driven by, and contributing to, dueasrather than le of paying the fines and fees. (dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at p. 1164.) not so here. unlike in dueas for resisting an officer by force or violence is not the result of (or even related to) indigence or failure to pay, nor is there any indication that imposing the fees and fine at issue will continue 13 a in c. (id. at p. 1163.) as punishment for driving without a license that dueas could not afford to obtain, the court ordered her to pay fines and fees she could not afford to pay. here, by contrast, the fees and fine were part of carnerofor conduct wholly unrelated to namely, endangering the life of a police officer by forcibly resisting arrest. nothing suggests that ordering carnero to pay the challenged fees or fine will perpetuate a cycle of poverty like that at play in dueas. nor is there any basis for concluding such financial obligationswhether or not carnero has the present ability to satisfy themwill make it more likely carnero will again use physical force to resist law enforcement efforts or commit any other crime. (see id. at p. 1168 [discussing as an indirect effect of imposing fines a defendant cannot pay].) nothing like the unique set of facts that the dueas court determined reflected a constitutional violation is present here. we leave for another day the question of what circumstances other than those present in dueas might reflect a constitutional violation and require an ability-to-pay determination. the circumstances reflected in the record before us do not. 14 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur: johnson, j. bendix, j. 