filed 12/30/19 p. v. carr ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. quinton marcel carr, defendant and appellant. b295680 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma073131) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frank m. tavelman, judge. affirmed as modified. eric e. reynolds, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and david e. madeo, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 defendant quinton marcel carr appeals from the judgment following his conviction for two counts of burglary and related offenses. carr contends the trial court denied him his right to be present at trial by removing him from the courtroom following an outburst, and violated his due process rights by imposing a restitution fine and various assessments without determining his ability to pay them. we reject both arguments. in response to our request for supplemental briefing, the attorney general concedes that under senate bill no. 136, effective january 1, 2020, we must strike the one-year subdivision (b). we modify the judgment accordingly, but otherwise affirm. procedural background the facts of the underlying offenses are not at issue in this appeal so we limit our summary to the relevant procedural history. we provide additional background in our discussion section. an information charged carr and terry donnell galloway with one count of first degree residential burglary (pen. code,1  459), and two counts of grand theft of a firearm ( 487, subd. (d)(2)). the information charged carr individually with one count each of first degree residential burglary with a person present ( 459), possession of a firearm by a felon with two priors ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)), and unlawful possession of ammunition ( 30305, subd. (a)(1)). the information alleged enhancements on 1 undesignated statutory citations are to the penal code. 3 terms ( 667, subd. (a)(1) and (b)(j), 667.5, subd. (b), 1170.12), and alleged a firearm enhancement on the count for residential burglary with a person present ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)).2 the jury found carr guilty on all counts, and found the firearm allegation to be true. the trial court found that carr had suffered a prior strike conviction ( 667, subd. (b)(j), 1170.12) and a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)). the trial court further found that carr had served a prior prison term for carrying a concealed weapon in violation of former section 12025, subdivision (a)(2), thus subjecting him to a one-year enhancement under section 667.5, subd. (b). in imposing sentence, the trial court selected the count of first degree residential burglary with a person present as the principal term. for that offense, the trial court sentenced carr to 19 years, calculated as the high term of six years, doubled because of the prior strike, with a five-year enhancement for the prior serious felony conviction, a one-year enhancement for the firearm, and a one-year enhancement for the prior prison term pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court added two years eight months for the other burglary count and one year four months for the firearm possession count, both calculated as one-third the midterm doubled for the prior strike. the trial court imposed the high term of three years each for the two counts of grand theft of a firearm and one count of unlawful possession of ammunition, but stayed those sentences pursuant to section years. 2 we omit discussion of the individual counts and enhancements alleged against galloway, which are not at issue in this appeal. 4 the trial court imposed a restitution fine of $5,000 under section 1202.4, subdivision (b), $240 in court operations assessments under section 1465.8, subdivision (a)(1) ($40 per count), and $180 in criminal conviction assessments under government code section 70373 ($30 per count), as well as other fees not at issue in this appeal. the trial court also awarded credits. carr timely appealed. discussion a. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by removing carr from the courtroom following an outburst from carr during the testimony of subsequent request to allow carr to return. carr therefore was absent during closing arguments and the reading of the verdict. carr contends the trial court violated his constitutional and statutory rights to be present at his trial. we disagree. 1. relevant proceedings during a pretrial hearing on august 20, 2018, the trial the prosecution had offered a plea deal for 12 years. carr stated he wished to proceed with the trial. the trial court said that was fine but wanted to be sure carr understood the decision he was westside om the courtroom. 5 record should reflect that before the court was done, the defendant got up not at the instruction of the court or bailiff. as he was going into the breach, the . . . bailiff had to assist the defendant in getting in. it looked like he was being resistant. the defendant then became belligerent and yelled out something criminal history, which included crimes of violence, and determined there was a need to shackle the defendant at trial, with the shackles not visible to the jury. defense counsel objected. on august 22, 2018, the trial court stated that it had sciplinary record indicating several incidents of creating disturbances or fighting with other inmates, objection, that carr should be shackled during trial. the trial at to the court and courtroom later that day, after jury selection, the trial court told carr that it had been advised that he was refusing to attend trial. the trial court informed carr that if he refused to come to the courtroom, the trial would continue in his absence. after further proceedings, the trial court stated that it had heard carr ask the deputy sheriff to take him out of the courtroom. the trial court informed carr he had a right to be 6 present but would be excused if he wished. carr said he wanted record indicates carr then exited the courtroom. the trial court these portions of these proceedings after getting agitated and on august 23, 2018, after trial had begun, the trial court repeated its warning that if carr refused to come to the courtroom on the next day of trial, the trial would proceed in his absence. on the afternoon of august 28, 2018, the trial court stated that proceedings were scheduled to begin that morning, but carr had refused to come to court, claiming to be sick. carr was now present in the courthouse, but the bailiff reported carr was y book. to inform carr that trial would proceed in his absence. carr then came to the courtroom. the trial proceeded with witness testimony from a parole agent. shortly after direct examination had begun, carr complained audibly that something was too tight. the trial court immediately sent the jury out of the courtroom. the trial court then asked carr if there was a problem. carr said, is too tight. [] just hear me tell them? [] shit hurt [] you said you would do a then, 7 the trial court reminded carr that he had a right to be present, but if he caused problems or refused to come to court, the trial would proceed in his absence. carr complained, using obscenities, that he felt sick and did not want to be in court that day. the court again admonished him not to use foul language, the trial court declared the trial in recess and cleared the audience from the courtroom. after the audience left, the trial court continued to try to speak with carr, who repeatedly interrupted, stating he did not want to listen to the trial court, that the trial court was not being carr was removed from the courtroom. the trial court personnel to make sure that [carr] was safely removed from the restraints on carr originally. the deputy reported that the restraints were not too tight, that he was able to put two fingers through it, and that he observed carr freely moving the restraint up and down his leg. after discussion with counsel, the trial court called the jury back in, informed the jurors that carr had voluntarily absented himself, and proceeded with witness testimony. 8 the next day, august 29, 2018, carr returned to the courtroom. the trial court reminded carr that he could attend trial but could not act in a disruptive manner. carr did not respond, and the trial court noted that carr appeared to be ignoring the court and singing to himself. trial resumed with direct examination of a deputy sheriff, who testified regarding her search of the home of galloway, carr interrupted, stating that he was not galloway. the trial court admonished him not to make outbursts, but carr me . . . [to] sit here and get 25 years . . . for some shit that . . . 3 the trial court sent the jury away. the court said, carr, your outburst is unacceptable. it is clear to the court that this was 100 percent orchestrated on your part. you came in here knowing darn well you were going to attempt to influence the jury by throwing out a trial court ordered that carr be removed from the proceedings the trial court the trial court repeated its conclusion that carr had . . . to influence the jury with 3 was broken up by the trial court repeatedly stating his name. replaced them with ellipses. 9 inappropriate comments, and he had every intention of despite having voluntarily absented himself the day before. the nce himself from mr. galloway in front of the jury . . . without having to subject himself to cross-examination. again, i believe it was an attempt to orchestrate and manipulate these proceedings. the trial court stated it was open to reconsidering its decision to remove carr from the the trial court called the jury back in and the deputy concluded her testimony with carr absent. following lunch, defense counsel requested that the trial court allow carr to return to the courtroom, stating that carr had assured defense counsel that he would behave appropriately. the trial court denied the request, finding no admonishments. the trial court also found that carto improperly influence the jury before lunch are certainly an indication that he has some sort of greater plan, of which the when the jury returned, the prosecution read several stipulations and the parties rested. carr was not present for the remainder of the trial, including closing arguments, discussion of inquiries from the jury, and the verdict. 10 2. applicable law and standard of review a criminal defendant has the right under both the federal and state constitutions, as well as state statutory law, to be personally present at trial. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 741; see  977, subd. (b)(1), 1043, subd. (a).) however, a defendant can lose his right to be present at trial if, after he has been warned by the judge that he will be removed if he continues his disruptive behavior, he nevertheless insists on conducting himself in a manner so disorderly, disruptive, and disrespectful of the court that his trial cannot be carried on with him in the courtroom. (people v. bell (2019) 7 cal.5th 70, 117 (bell);  (people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 202.) in doing so, bella trial court need not wait until actual violence or physical disruption occurs within the four walls of the courtroom in order to find a disruption within the meaning of section 1043.people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 406.) order excluding a criminal defendant to determine whether the disruption amounted authorities we cite above, which apply a deferential abuse-of-people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229 (bradford), is unavailing. that case involved a defendant who voluntarily absented himself from certain in-chambers and in-court hearings during the trial and penalty phases of the case, not one whom the court ordered 11 removed following a disruption.4 (see id. at pp. 13551358.) moreover, the supreme court in that case did not discuss the standard of review.5 we recognize the trial court in the instant case, when ordering carr removed from the courtroom, stated that carr was the trial framework for our analysis, therefore, is the law concerning removal of a disruptive defendant, not the law concerning a 3. analysis carr was sufficiently disruptive that the trial could not proceed with him present. throughout the proceedings carr used foul 4 we note that in bradford, some of defendwere at the request of defense counsel, who wanted to discuss witness to testify on his behalf, and to be executed. at that time, defense counsel also raised concerns about defecompetency. (bradford, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 1356.) 5 defendant appears to cite people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701 as supporting a de novo standard of review. that case, however, supports an abuse of discretion standard of ppellate courts accord trial courts considerable discretion in determining when disruption has occurred. our review of the record reveals quite plainly a defendant who was persistently disruptive. we find the trial court did not abuse its discretion by either ordering defendants removal or consenting to (id. at p. 774.) 12 language, invoked his gang membership to the trial court, interrupted the trial court, and refused to listen to its instructions. he twice had outbursts in front of the jury. after the first, in which he complained his restraints were too tight, the trial court warned him that trial would proceed in his absence if he caused problems or refused to come to court. the next day, the trial court again warned carr not to conduct himself in a disruptive manner. despite these warnings, carr interrupted a something he did not do, thus effectively testifying without subjecting himself to cross-examination, as the trial court noted. under these circumstances, we have no reason not to defer to the disrupted the proceedings, and presented a risk of disrupting them further. (see bell, supra, 7 cal.5th at p. 116.) e that he only had two outbursts. whether his outbursts were sufficiently disruptive to require his removal is a subjective determination by the trial court to which we defer. (bell, supra, 7 cal.5th at p. 116.) carr cites no authority suggesting that on these or similar facts a trial court abuses its discretion by removing a defendant. attempting to mislead the jury by declaring he faced 25 years if convicted. carr notes that the trial court itself had told him he faced 24 years, so his statement to the jury was largely accurate. 13 the trial court reasonably concluded that he was attempting to influence the jury without subjecting himself to cross-examination. the court also reasonably concluded that carr was improperly attempting to place the issue of punishment before the jury. (see, e.g., calcrim no. 101 [jury must reach verdict that inappropriate disrespectful behavior, justified his removal. carr further argues that even if the trial court properly removed him at the time of his outburst, it erred by refusing to allow him to return for the rest of the trial, despite defense counsel making that request and assuring the court carr would conduct himself properly. other than noting that removed defendants can reclaim their right to be present at trial if they are willing to conduct themselves properly, carr cites no authority in support of his argument. again, we defer to the trial representations, carr continued to pose a risk of disruption. carr argues that denying him the right to attend trial was prejudicial. we need not address this argument. even if his exclusion was prejudicial, the trial court was within its authority inappropriate behavior. b. no hearing is necessary to determine carrto pay fines and fees citing people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157 (dueas), carr argues that the trial court erred by imposing the $5,000 restitution fine and $420 in court operations and criminal 14 pay those costs. we reject this argument. in dueas, an unemployed, homeless mother with cerebral $1,000 for three juvenile citations. (dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at pp. 11601161.) thereafter she received multiple convictions related to driving with a suspended license, each accompanied by jail time and additional fees she could not afford to pay. (id. at p. 1161request to hold an ability to pay hearing despite undisputed evidence that she was indigent. (id. at p. 1163.) the appellate court reversed, holding that due process prohibited imposing the same assessments imposed in the current case and required the trial court to stay execution of the restitution fine until the trial court held an ability to pay hearing. (dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at p. 1164.) carr has forfeited his challenge to the fine and fees by not raising it in the trial court. courts have disagreed whether the constitutional principles announced in dueas are new and reasonably unforeseeable such that appellants sentenced prior to dueas can invoke those principles despite not having raised them in the trial court. (compare, e.g., people v. castellano (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 485, 489 [finding no forfeiture, reasoning dueas reasonably have been anticip with people v. frandsen (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 1126, 11541155 dueas we need not resolve this disagreement. even before dueas, defendants had a statutory right to challenge imposition 15 of a restitution fine above the statutory minimum of $300. ( 1202.4, subd. (c); people v. gutierrez (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 1027, 1033 (gutierrez).) carr received a restitution fine well above the statutory minimum but did not challenge it. thus, he has forfeited that challenge on appeal. (gutierrez, at p. 1033.) carr also has forfeited his challenge to the court assessments: restitution fine based on an inability to pay, he surely would not complain on similar grounds regarding an additional [$420] in ibid.) had carr not forfeited his challenge, we nonetheless would reject it. following people v. hicks (2019) 40 cal.app.5th 320, review granted november 26, 2019, s258946, this court has held that dueas was wrongly decided because it misapplied due process precedents. (people v. kingston (2019) 41 cal.app.5th 272; see also people v. caceres (2019) 39 cal.app.5th 917, 928 [declining to apply dueas although carr contends the imposition of the fines and fees without determining his ability to pay them also violated his equal protection rights and constitutional prohibitions on excessive fines, he provides no authority for those challenges apart from dueas. our rejection of dueas thus disposes of his entire argument. even if dueas were correctly decided, imposition of the wages during his two-decade prison sentence. (people v. johnson (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 134, 139140 [any error under dueas ll have the ability to earn prison 16 c. the one-year enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b) must be stricken pursuant to senate bill no. 136 we requested supplemental briefing regarding the impact of senate bill no. 136, which amends section 667.5, subdivision (b). we conclude, and the attorney -year enhancement under that statute must be stricken. sentencing, section 667.5, subdivision (b) imposes a one-year sentence enhancement for each prior prison or county jail term served by the defendant. senate bill no. 136 amends section 667.5, subdivision (b) to impose the enhancement only if the prior prison or jail teoffense as defined in subdivision (b) of section 6600 of the 6 the 6 welfare and institutions code section 6600, subdivision (b) provides, sexually violent offense means the following acts when committed by force, violence, duress, menace, fear of immediate and unlawful bodily injury on the victim or another person, or threatening to retaliate in the future against the victim or any other person, and that are committed on, before, or after the effective date of this article and result in a conviction or a finding of not guilty by reason of insanity, as defined in subdivision (a): a felony violation of section 261, 262, 264.1, 269, 286, 287, 288, 288.5, or 289 of, or former section 288a of, the penal code, or any felony violation of section 207, 209, or 220 of the penal code, committed with the intent to commit a violation of section 261, 262, 264.1, 286, 287, 288, or 289 of, or former section 288a of, the penal code. 17 amendments will be effective on january 1, 2020. (see cal. const., art. iv,  8, subd. (c)(2).) absent evidence to the contrary, we presume the legislature intended amendments to statutes that reduce people v. brown (2012) 54 cal.4th 314, 323, citing in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 742748.) our decision in this appeal will not be final for at least 30 days from issuance of this opinion, which will be after january 1, 2020, when the amendments to section 667.5 take effect. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.366(b)(1).) thus, senate bill no. 136 will apply retroactively to carr. (see people v. lopez (2019) 42 cal.app.5th 337, 341342 (lopez) [applying senate bill no. 136 retroactively when appeal not final by january 1, 2020].) carr served a prior prison term for carrying a concealed firearm (former  12025, subd. (a)), which is not a sexually violent offense under welfare and institutions code section 6600, -year enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b). the parties do not request trial court imposed the maximum possible sentence, there is no (lopez, supra, 42 cal.app.5th at p. 342.) 18 disposition the judgment is modified to strike the one-year enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b). the judgment is otherwise affirmed. the trial court shall forward the modified abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: johnson, acting p. j. weingart, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 