 filed 1/6/20 p. v. black ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. cleveland rene black, defendant and appellant. b295256 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma074334) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed as modified. sarah m. javaheri, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, jaime l. fuster and joseph p. lee, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 defendant cleveland rene black was convicted of one count of being a felon in possession of a firearm, in violation of penal code1 section 29800, subdivision (a)(1) (firearm offense); and one count of possession of cocaine base for sale, in violation of health and safety code section 11351.5 (drug offense). the trial court imposed an aggregate sentence of 21 years 4 months in state prison. among other things, the aggregate prison sentence includes a four-year enhancement for the drug offense, imposed pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) (gang-enhancement provision); a one-year enhancement on the firearm offense, also imposed pursuant to the gang-enhancement provision; and a two-year enhancement imposed pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b) (prior prison sentence enhancement provision). the two gang enhancements. in particular, black argues that the people failed to introduce sufficient evidence showing that he committed these offenses: (1) for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang (the gang-related prong of the gang-enhancement provision); and (2) with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members (the specific-intent prong). we find that the people offered sufficient evidence to support the gang enhancements on both offenses. first, the people introduced evidence that black armed himself to be ready to kill rival gang members and thereby reputation for violence. second, the people offered evidence that black acquired the cocaine base in association with other gang members, and that he intended to pay taxes to the gang on sales 1 undesignated statutory citations are to the penal code. 3 of the drug, thereby benefitting the gang and furthering, criminal activities. additionally, the parties agree that: (1) a statutory amendment to the prior prison sentence enhancement provision requires us to strike the two one-year sentencing enhancements imposed thereunder; and (2) we should not remand this matter to allow the to compensate for the loss of that enhancement. thus, we strike that two-year sentencing enhancement, and affirm the judgment as modified. procedural background on august 22, 2018, the people filed an information charging black with one count of possession of a firearm by a felon, in violation of section 29800, subdivision (a)(1) (count 1); and one count of possession for sale of cocaine base, in violation of health and safety code section 11351.5 (count 2). count 1 arose out of an incident that allegedly occurred on or about july 28, 2017, and count 2 purportedly arose out of an incident occurring on or about november 16, 2017. the information sought sentencing enhancements pursuant to the gang-enhancement and the prior prison sentence enhancement provisions, respectively. although black initially pleaded not guilty to both counts and denied any and all special allegations, black later admitted he had suffered prior convictions for violations of section 422, subdivision (a), section 496, subdivision (a), and section 459. at the conclusion of trial, the jury found him guilty of both offenses and, with respect to each offense, the jury found true both prongs of the gang-enhancement provision. on january 16, 2019, the trial court sentenced black to an aggregate term of 21 years 4 months in state prison. the trial court 4 selected count 2 as the base count and sentenced black to the upper term of four years, which was doubled to eight years pursuant to section 667, subdivisions (b) through (j); and section 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (e). the court also imposed the following prison terms, each of which were to run s eight-year sentence on count 2: the high term of four years pursuant to the gang-enhancement provision; five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1); and two years pursuant to the prior prison sentence enhancement provision.2 additionally, the trial court imposed a 28-month consecutive prison sentence for count 1, which was comprised of: an eight-month sentence (i.e., one-third of the midterm of 24 months), which was doubled to 16 months pursuant to section 667, subdivisions (b) through (j), and section 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (e); and a one-year sentence under the gang-enhancement provision (i.e., one third of the midterm of three years). on january 17, 2019, black appealed the judgment of conviction. 2 although black admitted that he served three prior prison sentences within the meaning of the prior prison sentence enhancement provision, the trial court exercised its authority under section 1385 to strike the prior prison sentence that black served for violating section 422, subdivision (a). 5 factual background 1. the july 28, 2017 altercation at a liquor store about 8:45 p.m. on july 28, 2017, k.a. drove a.b. (k.a.s friend) and ernest wilkerson (a.b.known as or store located in lancaster.3 after k.a. parked her vehicle at the liquor store, she and a.b. remained in the vehicle, and wilkerson left the vehicle and entered the store. shortly thereafter, wilkerson exited the store and asked outside the establishment to buy him cigarettes. black parked a pt cruiser next to k.a. black a.b. shortly thereafter, black walked toward the store, and black and wilkerson yelling at each other; k.a. was unable to hear what the two men were saying.4 black then punched wilkersons face, and wilkerson responded by drawing a firearm from his belt. at that point, k.a. black ran k.a. 3 it is undisputed that at all relevant times, wilkerson had wilkerson was a member of a blood gang called the 6 duce brims, and black was a member of the crafty crips/crafty crew clique of a crips gang called the rolling 30s. 4 on direct examination, the following colloquy occurred: did you see the male from the pt cruiser make any type of gestures at that point? [] [k.a.:] they were talking to each other. [] q did you see any, like, hand gestures, though? [] [k.a. thus, k.a.that she saw black and/or wilkerson make some sort of hand gesture(s) to each other. 6 and then over to the back of it; when black was behind k.a.vehicle, she heard a gunshot come from that direction. at that time, k.a. also heard gunshots that were coming from the gunfire eventually ceased, and k.a. looked up and did not see wilkerson or black at the scene.5 k.a. realized she had been shot in her hand and that a.b. sustained a gunshot to her shoulder. after the incident, the police arrived at the scene and observed that the pt cruiser was parked in front of the liquor store with its engine still running. the police also recovered shell casings and bullet fragments s parking lot and an apartment complex directly to the east of the store. forensic analysis later indicated that several of the bullets and shell casings were fired from a .40 s&w that was manufactured by glock, and that others were fired from a 9-millimeter luger. the parties do not dispute that the police later recovered from e the 9-millimeter semiautomatic handgun that was used in the shooting and that the police have not recovered the .40 s&w handgun. 2. check-in at the parole office on november 16, 2017 in 2017, marcel clemmons about 3:45 p.m. on november 16, 2017, clemmons summoned black to a parole office in lancaster for a check-in. after black reported to the parole office, clemmons detained and searched him. clemmons found the following items on black: $519.48 in 5 for the purposes of this appeal, black does not dispute that he drove the pt cruiser and that he had this verbal and physical altercation with wilkerson. 7 currency and the crime lab later tested five of the bindles and found that each of those bindles contained cocaine base. detective giovanni lampignano testified that the packaging for the cocaine base was was found on black. 3. expert testimony regarding gangs the people offered the testimony of three gang experts: detective giovanni lampignano, officer dexter navarro, and officer eduardo gonzales. this section summarizes certain relevant aspects of their testimony. a. the 6 duce brims, the rolling 30s, and the antelope valley the 6 duce brims gang operates in certain parts of los angeles county, including the antelope valley. one of its primary rivals is the rolling 30s gang. the rolling 30s gang has operated in various locations in san bernardino county, orange county, and los angeles county, including the antelope valley. sense that members of different gangs can be friends with one another and/or have been known to conduct business together. further, gang territorial borders in the antelope valley are are in the city of los angeles; thus, a little bit valley than they do in the city of los angeles. primary activities include burglaries, robberies, narcotics sales, 8 murders, and shootings, and its members are known to carry firearms. around june and july of 2017, the 6 duce brims and the rolling 30s gangs were embroiled in a violent in which rival gang members had shot and killed one another on multiple occasions. black has several tattoos showing he is affiliated with the rolling 30s, including a tattoo on one of his arms that has the -n-a,- wilkerson has a set of tattoos around his neck and jaw line, all of which are well-known symbols of the brims gangs. officer navarro opined that a rival gang member and recognize them as gang signs. officer navarro further testified that upon seeing these tattoos, the rival gang member with wilkerson that could escalate to a violent altercation. b. [a] typical narcotics dealer in the gang will buy [narcotics] from a shot caller within the [rolling] 30s who has . . . gang members[ ] that are allowed to buy drugs from the outside[ a]nd . . . put differently, going and finding their own narcotics and selling it on their own. they believe in the 9 the gang employs this approach because it allows the gang . . . and protects the parties do not dispute that the rolling members narcotics sales. a tax is money or some other thing of value that a member provides to the gang. the people asked gonzales several questions regarding the consequences that a rolling 30s gang member could face if that person did not abide by its rules governing narcotics sales. the prosecutor asked, suppli gonzales responded, there are just certain people who . . . the gang aligns with, that blood gang. [] . . . already put in that position to the prosecutor also asked gonzales, approved for them to buy s gonzales responded that he elaborated that subjected to a verbal warning, beaten, killed, or thrown out of the gang. c. hypothetical questions the people asked officer gonzales questions regarding two hypothetical scenarios. the first hypothetical scenario concerned 10 the gang cliff is a gang c gang member and a convicted felon. bob is a gang b member. gang c and gang b are rival gangs. cliff sees bob in a store. cliff walks up to bob. bob has a big tattoo on his neck which is a clear symbol of gang b. cliff exchanges words with bob. cliff then punches bob in the face which starts a fight. both cliff and bob are carrying guns. [] cliff and bob pulls [sic] out their guns and start shooting each other.after describing this hypothetical scenario, the prosecutor asked, in your opinion, how would that conduct benefit the gang [sic] for cliff and bob to gonzales indicated would benefit from this conduct. gonzales statedypically, . . . before [a gang member] even gets in a fight or sees a rival gang member[,] . . . he goes out into the community waiting for the opportunity to be able to use gonzales further testified that if a gang member sees that another person has tattoos associated with a rival gang, then he or she will recognize an opportunity to t according to gonzales, the gang seize that of he opined that this conduct would promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members by causing residents of the . . . to be more afraid to confront members of the gonzales testified that if the gang member instead 11 the people also her or gonzales responded that the conduct described in the hypothetical that its members will be known to be ruthless and willing to kill rival gang members. gonzales opined that this enhanced reputation will cause other gangs to desire to align with the go possibly sell or buy guns or he also stated tenhanced . . . come forward to law enforcement or police with information regarding that gang, in fear of retaliation. scenario concerned the gang c . . . [has] selected individuals who are permitted or allowed to buy drugs from outside sources. [these sources are] after middle men and street level sellers within the gang. [] cliff does not have a stable job. cliff has $500 with him. he also has six grams of cocaine base packaged into 20 baggies for sale. gang the prosecutor first asked, do you have an opinion as to whether the crime, possession of sales, gonzales testified that this crime would benefit the gang because it would make money on the narcotics sales. he claimed that the money allows the gang to buy guns, cars, jewelry, and nice clothingrecruitment efforts. gonzales further opined 12 member in the hypothetica assists conduct by . . . gang membersa member of gang c will have a good reputation. gonzales claimed that, by virtue of this good reputation, , . . . expand 6 4. s social media account the people introduced into evidence excerpts of messages and images from account. several of those excerpts were screenshots police had taken of certain whereas other excerpts were taken from materials that facebook provided in response to a search warrant served by detective lampignano. officer gonzales testified that certain aspects of facebook page reference his gang affiliation and particular drug sales. 6 black argues that gonzales regarding the n fact, but based we note that black did not raise this objection at trial. nonetheless, his failure to do so is not dispositive of the instant appeal. regardless of whether black forfeited any objection to the admissibility of this testimony, we must still determine whether it, in combination with other proof introduced at trial, constitutes substantial evidence supporting the gang enhancement for the drug offense. 13 which officer gonzales interpreted to mean that black agreed with a expand the rolling 30s territory. in another message, black [r]urnergonzales interpreted to be a reference to a firearm.7 additionally, in september 2017, black uploaded a picture depicting cash, [,] gonzales also testified that black had a conversation with a fellow rolling 30s gang member concerning taxes paid to the gang for the sales of codeine and other drugs. on cross-examination, however, gonzales admitted that black and the other gang member did not discuss cocaine during that conversation. similarly, detective facebook page references his gang affiliation. for instance, black niggas be fraternizing with the enemies . . . palmcaster shit!! on crip i lampignano opined that black was stating that he does not trust gang members in the antelope valley who fraternize with rival gang members. lampignano further contains messages that referenced promethazine (i.e., a 7 although pe-a and 40-b do not explicitly statst this message, certain data accompanying these documents indicate -a and 40-exhibits indicate that black posted this message in connection with a photograph that he uploaded onto facebook. 14 prescription cough syrup), xanax, hydrocodone, and marijuana. yet, the sale of facebook materials he had reviewed. detective lampignano also page discusses the july 28 shooting. in a conversation that black told another person tha somebody shot at [him]. the other person then asked who shot at black, and black responded that the shooter [g] lastly, lampignano testified that black had certain conversations weapons. specifically, lampignano testified that black may have referred to a glock handgun in the following june 29, 2017 message: also on that date, a different facebook user sent black a message containing the lampignano opined that these messages indicate that the other us that black standard of review evidence supporting a conviction, the reviewing court must examine the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidenceevidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. ochoa (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 650, 656657 (ochoa).) [the] appellate court must . . . presume in support of the judgment the existence 15 of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence, ] all reasonable inferences in favor of the s findings. (see people v. rios (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 542, 564 (rios), ellipsis added; people v. perez (2017) 18 cal.app.5th 598, 607 (perez).) if the circumstances reasonably justify the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal of the judgment. (ochoa, at p. 657.) may not be based on suspicion alone, or on imagination, speculation, supposition, surmise, conjecture, or guess work. [] . . . a finding of fact must be an inference drawn from evidence rather than . . . a mere speculation as to probabilities without [citation.] a trier of fact may rely on inferences to substantiality that a reasonable trier of fact could determine beyond a reasonable doubt (rios, at p. 564.) the substantial evidence standard applies to sufficiency-of-the-evidence challenges to enhancements imposed pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). (see ochoa, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at pp. 656657.) that provision authorizes the trial court to e the people establish that he or she for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members . . . see  186.22, subd. (b)(1); see also perez, supraevidence must establish both of the two prongs to the gang .) 16 discussion i. the people offered sufficient evidence to support the gang enhancement for the firearm offense people relied on three facts to support the [gang] enhancement: that [black] was a gang member, that he was involved in an altercation with a rival gang member, and expert testimony he further presented no evidence as to why [black] if the shooting could shed some light on why [he] possessed a gun, . . . . the [p]rosecution presented no evidence regarding the arguments fail because he overlooks other evidence in the record that supports the gang enhancement, and he fails to construe all the circumstances of the shooting support the reasonable inference that black confronted wilkerson to benefit the rolling 30s and to further criminal conduct by its members. the people offered evidence showing that black or wilkerson flashed some sort of gesture(s) to one another, wilkerson had visible tattoos on his neck and jawline that are well-known by gang members to be associated with a rival of the rolling 30s gang, [g]escalated the dispute from a verbal confrontation to a physical altercation by punching wilkerson, and this fight occurred during (see ante, fn. 4 [k.a.regarding the gesture(s) that black and/or wilkerson flashed at 17 each other].) additionally, approximately one month before the shooting, black sent messages from his gang-account8 in which he sought to buy or sell a firearm produced by glock, which was the company that manufactured one of the two guns used in the shooting. these messages suggest that black used a glock firearm at the liquor store for a gang-related purpose. officer gonzales opined that in the circumstances described above, each gang member had an opportunity to enhance his further and deterring (a) residents and (b) rivals from confronting ths. the jury could reasonably rely upon gonzales because (see people v. ferraez (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 925, 930 (ferraez).) although black correctly points out that the people did not offer direct evidence of the reason for the fight (e.g., k.a. could not hear what black and wilkerson had said to one another), the jury could reasonably circumstantial evidence discussed in this section. (see perez, supra, 18 cal.app.5th at p. the intent proven by direct evidence; usually it must be inferred from the facts and circumstances surrferraez, supra, 112 cal.app.4th testimony [predicated on hypothetical facts] was circumstantial ].) 8 -relate 18 black also claims that gonzalesny was deficient because it rested on the premise armed, the crime is gang related and committed with the specific (see also perez . . . essentially any shooting by a gang member is gang related because the use of violence enhances the gang instilling fear in the community. many courts have soundly rejected such a sweeping generalization untethered, as it is, to we reject contention because the hypothetical questions posed by the people incorporated certain evidence showing that the shooting was gang-relatedi.e., the shooters were members of which is a clear (see also rios, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 574 [noting whether the perpetrator and whether the victim of a crime is a rival gang member are relevant factors under the gang-enhancement provision].) the people presented other evidence on this point as well, including the fact that black and/or wilkerson flashed one or more hand gestures at each other, and facebook messages [g]ang moreover, black facebook account contains other messages supporting the inference that black armed himself in anticipation for such a confrontation with a rival. in one conversation, black expressed his desire to expand territory (i.e., by buying back the block). black also posted a message indicating that he considered members of rival gangs in the antelope valley . in another message on 19 his gang-related facebook account, he bragged about [r]iding irearm. one could rationally interpret these messages as circumstantial evidence that black was the archetypal gang member described by officer gonzalesi.e., one thus, the jury could have reasonably inferred that, prior to the liquor store encounter, black armed himself so that he would be ready to seize upon any such s reputation for violence. he claims to have used the firearm in self-defenseand not for the purpose of enhancing his because wilkerson . k posts that he shot back at a rival gang member, something detective furthermore, black contends that the fight could not have been gang-rel establish that territory, or that the two gangs had a territorial dispute he also argues that experts admitted that not all gang members live up to the standards imposed by the gang, and [s] these arguments all fail because black does not construe the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment. (see ochoa, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at p. 656.) in addition, black claims that because k.a. was not aware that wilkerson was a gang member, black could not have been 20 aware of that fact either. this aspect of k.a.however, is of little assistance to black. k.a. testified that she had never met wilkerson before the day of the shooting, and her testimony suggests that she did not carefully observe appearance member. moreover, whereas there is no evidence that a layperson such as k.a. would recogtattoos, the people introduced expert testimony that the meaning of his tattoos were to his rivals. in sum, we find that the people introduced substantial evidence supporting both prongs of the gang-enhancement provision: black possessed a firearm (1) for the benefit of the rolling 30s gang (i.e., to enhance its reputation for violence), and (2) with the specific intent to promote criminal conduct by the (i.e., by instilling fear in the community, thereby allowing fellow members to commit crimes without interference from community residents and rival gang members). agang enhancement for the firearm offense. ii. the people offered sufficient evidence to support the gang enhancement for the drug offense although black does not dispute that he possessed the cocaine base for the purpose of selling it, black argues that the people failed to offer sufficient evidence supporting each prong of the gang enhancement for this offense. for the reasons discussed in this section, we disagree. officer gonzales of under those rules, rolling 30s gang members may not sell drugs on their own, but instead have to obtain them through certain members who 21 are authorized suppliers. the rules also require members to pay taxes to the rolling 30s on their drug sales. when taxes are paid to a gang, its members can purchase guns, cars, jewelry, and nice clothing, all of which s recruitment efforts. further, the rolling 30s members are abide by the rules, including the rule requiring each member to purchase his or her drugs from an authorized supplier. a member may also be warning, beaten, or thrown out of the gang. s facebook messages indicate that he was aware of, and adhered to, ng narcotics sales. black utilized his gang-related facebook account to attempt to purchase promethazine and sell several other drugs, including xanax bars and marijuana. black also had a facebook conversation with another rolling 30s member where they discussed taxes on codeine sales. furthermore, about two months before the police found cocaine base on black, he posted a message on his gang-related facebook page that officer gonzales interpreted as expressing willingness to pay taxes to the gang (i.e., black said, [b]reak bread with yo . the jury could have reasonably relied upon this evidence to find both prongs of the gang-enhancement provision. concerning the first prong, the jury could have rationally inferred from this evidence that black committed the drug offense in association with the rolling 30s because gang rules required him to obtain narcotics from particular gang members, and black intended to sell the drugs to benefit the gang because he knew he would pay taxes on those transactions. substantial evidence also shows 22 that black possessed the cocaine base to further, promote, or assist criminal conduct by rolling 30s gang members, as the taxes paid on narcotics sales supported the recruitment efforts of a robberies, narcotics sales, murders, and shootings. black nonetheless insists there is no evidence that he worked with anyone else to sell cocaine, had permission to sell the drug (e.g., evidence showing he tried to sell it in gang territory), or paid a tax to the gang from the sale of cocaine. black apparently overlooks the aforementioned evidence that the rolling 30s rules required him to pay the gang a tax on narcotics sales and obtain its permission and assistance to engage in those transactions, and that black approved of these rules. black further complains gonzales sale of cocairelied on the assumption that people failed to present any evidence showing that the cocaine base in question was a good product. we agree that the the jury was entitled to rely on other evidence (including other aspects of gonzales tending to establish that black committed this offense in association with the gang, to benefit the gang, and to further, promote, or assist its criminal conduct. (see people v. jasso credibility black argues that because the people did not introduce evidence showing he discussed the sale of cocaine on his facebook page, he must have been trying to hide the sale of crack cocaine 23 from the gang. argument erroneously construes this omission in his favor, rather implicit finding that his facebook account was not the only means by which black would sell drugs. (see ochoa, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at p. 657 if the circumstances reasonably findings, the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal of the judgment rios, supra ] appellate court must . . . presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence, ellipsis added].) the drugs mentioned [on] facebook are ones that could be legal in always illegal. draw this distinction, it has no apparent relevance to the instant case.9 for these reasons, we conclude that substantial evidence supporwith any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members.( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) 9 black concedes that at least some of the drugs mentioned on his facebook page are available only with a prescription (e.g., promethazine). yet, he offers no evidence showing he had a license to sell prescription drugs. 24 iii. we strike the two-year prior prison sentence enhancement 5, subdivision (b) provided in pertinent enhancement of prison terms for new offenses because of prior prison terms shall be imposed as follows: [] . . . [w]here the new offense is any felony for which a prison sentence or a sentence of imprisonment in a county jail under subdivision (h) of section 1170 is imposed or is not suspended, in addition and consecutive to any other sentence therefor, the court shall impose a one-year term for each prior separate prison term or county jail term imposed under subdivision (h) of section 1170 . . . (stats 2018, ch. 423,  65.) about nine months after the trial csentence, the governor signed into law an amendment to section 667.5, subdivision (b), which became effective on january 1, 2020. (sen. bill no. 136 (20192020 reg. sess.); see cal. const., art. iv,  8, subd. (c)(2) [providing the effective date for this amendment].) as amended, section 667.5, subdivision (b) imposes a sentencing enhancement for only . . . prison term for a sexually violent offense as defined in subdivision (b) of section 6600 of the welfare and instin. bill no. 136 (20192020 reg. sess.).) after briefing closed on the instant appeal, we asked the parties to provide supplemental briefing on what impact, if any, s sentence. in response, the parties submitted supplemental letter briefs in which they agreed that: (1) senate bill no. 136 requires us to strike the aggregate two-year sentencing enhancement the trial court imposed under section 667.5, subdivision (b), largely because black has not committed any of the offenses identified in 25 welfare and institutions code section 6600, subdivision (b); and (2) we should not remand this matter to allow the trial court to enhancement. wtwo one-year enhancements imposed under section 667.5, subdivision (b). (see artal v. allen (2003) 111 cal.app.4th 273, 275, fn. . . . are reliable indications of ion on the facts as well as the law, and a reviewing court may make use of statements therein as admissions against witkin, cal. procedure (5th ed. 2019) appeal,  an admission of a legal or factual point, controlling in the people v. lopez (2019) 42 cal.app.5th 337, 341342 [applying senate bill no. 136 retroactively when appeal not final by january 1, 2020].) 26 disposition the judgment is modified as follows: the two one-year enhancements imposed pursuant to penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b) are stricken. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. upon the issuance of our remittitur, the trial court is directed to amend the abstract of judgment to reflect the prison sentence of 19 years 4 months. the trial court shall forward certified copies of the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.272(d)(2).) not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: johnson, acting p. j. weingart, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 