filed 9/23/19 p. v. echauri ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. matthew fay echauri, defendant and appellant. b296610 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga100703) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael villalobos, judge. affirmed. michele a. douglass, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 defendant matthew fay echauri stabbed his former girlfriend 33 times after she refused his request that she not testify against him in a domestic violence case. a jury convicted echauri of willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664),1 in which he personally used a deadly weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)) and inflicted great bodily injury under circumstances involving domestic violence ( 12022.7, subd. (e)). the jury also convicted echauri on two counts of dissuading a witness ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1)) and one count of mayhem ( 203). the trial court sentenced echauri to life with the possibility of parole plus six years for the attempted murder. it sentenced him to four years on one of the counts of dissuading a witness. it stayed sentence on the other count of dissuading a witness and on the mayhem count pursuant to section 654. in addition to the standard fines and assessments, per stipulation the trial court ordered echauri to pay $10,781.80 to the california victim compensation restitution fund. background i. prosecution evidence echauri began dating melissa m. in december 2015, while in april 2016, echauri was driving melissa in his car in orange county. he became upset over a phone call melissa received. he hit her in the face with his fist and took away her phone. he lost control of his car and hit another vehicle, causing 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 additional injuries to melissa. the police responded to the scene of the accident, and melissa told them what had happened. home echauri pushed her to the ground; he hit and kicked her. melissa managed to leave and asked a neighbor to call the police. a few days later, melissa told the police she did not want to prosecute echauri. melissa broke up with echauri in late february 2017, although she remained in contact with him. on march 2, 2017, melissa received a letter stating that a criminal case had been filed against echauri in orange county, and a restraining order had been issued; the letter told melissa she was to have no communication with echauri and she would have to appear in court. that afternoon, echauri, who had also received a letter regarding the case, texted melissa; he wanted to see the letter she had received. melissa wanted to obey the restraining order but eventually agreed to allow echauri to come to her house to see the letter. at her home, melissa showed echauri the letter she had received. he told her to testify that he had not hit her and to try to get the restraining order lifted. melissa told echauri to let the court handle the matter. he became upset and began calling her echauri asked melissa to come with him to talk. she agreed in order to get him out of the house. echauri continued to tell melissa to testify that he had not hit her and to get the restraining order lifted. melissa again told him to leave her alone and let the court handle the matter. as she turned to go back to her house, melissa felt echauri hit her on the back of the head. melissa started to hit back and then 4 and kicking echauri, while he continued stabbing her in the head, neck, and back. melissa recognized the knife that echauri used to stab her as one he kept in a box in his closet; she had never seen him carry it on his person. get help, but no one answered. echauri followed her, grabbed her by the hair and threw her to the ground. he got on top of her and continued stabbing her. he then got up and began to walk away. however, he returned and then stabbed her in the head and face. echauri said nothing while he was stabbing melissa; melissa was screaming.2 r house, and echauri ran away. melissa got up and ran to her mother. some people came deputies arrived at the scene, as did an ambulance. melissa was taken to the hospital. melissa suffered 33 stab wounds, one puncturing a lung. another severed a tendon in her arm, requiring surgical repair. as of the time of trial, melissa had not regained full use of her hand, and she had visible scars on her face and body. that evening, echauri walked into a local bar and ordered a drink. the bartender noticed that echauri had foam around serve echauri. echauri told the bartender he was in trouble and had to get out of town; he said he hawith a switchblade. the bartender called the police. 2 5 the police arrived and took echauri into custody. they observed echauri to be calm and cooperative; he did not appear to need to be placed on a psychiatric hold. on march 4, 2017 while melissa was still in the hospital, she received a call from the county jail, asking if she would accept you say anything, i swear i will . . . the phone. her phone rang a second time; she did not answer it. phone records from the county jail showed that echauri made two phone calls that morning. ii. defense evidence while echauri was at the inmate reception center at the county jail, nurses requested that he receive a mental health examination. a psychiatric nurse met with echauri on march 4, 2017. she noted that echauri had received mental health treatment in 2011 and 2013 but was not prescribed medication; echauri had been diagnosed with depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. echauri told the nurse he had been prescribed a blue pill for anxiety and nervousness, and he occasionally used marijuana; he denied substance abuse. a psychiatrist working at the jail evaluated echauri on march 14. he diagnosed echauri with substance abuse disorder 3 medical records and case documents, including interviews of 3 the psychiatrist did not note the specific substances that echauri abused. 6 echauri and evaluated him. he concluded that echauri suffered from substance abuse disorder. echauri mainly abused marijuana, and secondarily alcohol. echauri also abused cocaine, methamphetamine, ecstasy, and xanax. suffered from anxiety and depression; xanax is an antianxiety drug which comes in various colors, including blue. xanax can cause sedation and even blackouts, but it does not produce obvious symptoms such as slurred speech or unsteadiness, the way alcohol does. additionally, xanax has a very short half-life, so its effects and presence in the bloodstream would be greatly reduced within four hours. stabbed melissa and thereafter were not inconsistent with a conclusion that echauri was under the influence of xanax. discussion we appointed counsel to represent echauri on this appeal. after review of the record, echauris counsel filed an opening brief requesting this court to independently review the record pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441. on july 18, 2019, we sent a letter to echauri, advising him that he had 30 days within which to personally submit any contentions or issues which he wished us to consider. we received no response. we have examined the entire record. we are satisfied that no arguable legal issues exist and that echauri counsel has fully complied with his responsibilities. by virtue of counsels compliance with the wende procedure and our review of the 7 record, we are satisfied that echauri received adequate and effective appellate review of the order entered against him in this case. (people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441; accord, people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 109-110.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. bendix, j. 