filed 11/13/19 p. v. cruz ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose mariano cruz, defendant and appellant. b296316 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta146389) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, connie r. quinones, judge. reversed in part and affirmed in part. michael c. sampson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and nicholas j. webster, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction following a jury trial, defendant jose mariano cruz was convicted of felony assault with a deadly weapon on owen c.,1 as well as simple assault and simple battery on girlfriend, amanda c. on appeal, defendant asserts that his simple assault conviction must be reversed because it is based on the same set of facts as the simple battery conviction, and he cannot be convicted of both a greater and lesser offense based on the same facts. the attorney general concedes that the simple assault conviction must be reversed. we agree with the parties, and reverse the conviction for simple assault. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. factual and procedural background the los angeles county district attorney (the people) filed an information charging defendant with felony assault with a deadly weapon on owen c. (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1),2 count 1); felony assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury on amanda c. ( 245, subd. (a)(4), count 2); and misdemeanor battery on amanda c., a person in a dating relationship ( 243, subd. (e)(1), count 3). the information further alleged that defendant had two prior strike convictions ( 667, subd. (d), 1170.12, subd. (b)), two prior serious felony convictions ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and two prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). defendant pled not guilty and the case proceeded to a jury trial. 1 we refer to the victims by first names to protect their privacy. (see cal. rules of court, rule 8.90(b)(4).) 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 a. prosecution case at trial, amanda testified that defendant was her ex-boyfriend and father of her unborn child. she testified that on june 23, 2018, she was living in a tent in a homeless encampment on the corner of redondo beach boulevard and vermont avenue. defendant did not live with her, but visited her often. amanda testified that in the evening of june 23, she arguing; amanda pushed defendant, and defendant held amanda testified that defendant did not hit her and was not violent with her. a man who lived in a and owen and other neighbors started chasing defendant, while amanda said she could not tell what the thing was because she did not have her glasses on at the time. the police arrived, and amanda testified that she 3 owen testified4 that on june 23, 2018, he was in his tent with a friend when he heard a scream. he looked outside and saw defendant grab amanda by her hair and drag her; amanda owen told defendant to let her go, and defendant let go of amanda and started walking toward owen. owen did not see anything in 3 during redirect examination, after a break in the proceedings, amanda did not return to the courtroom and was not located again. the partial redirect was stricken, and the jury was instructed to disregard it. 4 owen did not appear at trial, and after a showing of due diligence, his preliminary testimony was read to the jury. 4 owen and others chased defendant away; during the chase, defendant fell down, owen hit him with a stick, then defendant then got up and ran. after the incident, owen talked to police officers and identified defendant as the man who stabbed him. owen was transported to the hospital, where his wounds were cleaned, and he was given antibiotics. gardena police department officer ryan davidson testified that he responded to a call regarding an incident at the intersection of redondo beach boulevard and vermont avenue on june 23, 2018. he testified that defendant was detained nearby, and when davidson went to that location, he saw a firefighter pull the jury was shown still photographs recorded by body camera, which showed defendant and the screwdriver. gardena police determined that the location of the crime was in the jurisdiction of the los angeles police department (lapd), and investigation was therefore turned over to lapd. lapd officer mario silva testified that he responded to a call at the location of the incident. silva spoke with amanda, who said that she and her boyfriend, defendant, had gotten into an argument, amanda also told silva that she saw defendant stab owen. the screwdriver recovered from defendant was admitted as an exhibit. b. defense case the defense called witness markquis harris, who testified that he was in the encampment area on june 23, 2018. harris testified that as he arrived he struggle in progress, in which a man named lamont hit defendant with a machete, 5 and owen and others chased defendant. harris also testified that he saw owen stab himself in the arm a few minutes after the struggle ended. defendant testified that on the evening of june 23, he went to the encampment and took amanda to dinner. he testified that amanda was his girlfriend, and they were expecting a child. defendant said that after they ate, amanda stayed at the restaurant, and defendant returned to the encampment. there, and defendant threatened to call the police. defendant then went inside his tent and called tiffany, an ex-and asked her to pick him up. amanda returned and heard defendant talking to tiffany, and they began to argue. amanda slam amanda gave the phone back but calling him names. crip interfered because they were trying to get at her to sleep with the men attacked defendant. owen had a knife; as back. defendant ran away; the men chased him and knocked him down, but defendant was able to get away and call 911. defendant testified that he did not stab owen, hit amanda, or in closing arguments, the prosecutor made clear that counts 2 and 3 were both based on the allegation that defendant pulled aman the jury was instructed on lesser included offenses for these two counts. 6 c. verdict and sentence the jury found defendant guilty of count 1, assault with a deadly weapon on owen. on count 2, the jury found defendant guilty of the lesser included offense of misdemeanor simple assault ( 240). on count 3, the jury found defendant guilty of the lesser included offense of misdemeanor simple battery ( 242). defendant admitted his prior convictions, and the court dismissed the court sentenced defendant to a total of 18 years in prison, consisting of the high term of four years on count one, doubled to eight years due to the prior strike, plus two consecutive five-year enhancements for the court ordered the sentences on counts 2 and 3 to be stayed, but did not appear to impose any sentence on these counts. appellant timely appealed. discussion on appeal, defendant asserts that his simple assault conviction must be reversed because it is based on the same set of facts as the simple battery conviction, and defendant cannot be convicted of both a greater and lesser offense on the same facts. the attorney general agrees, as do we. multiple charges arising from a single act or course of conduct. (people v. sanders (2012) 55 cal.4th 731, 736; see also  954.) a greater and a necessarily lesser included offense arising out of the same act or course of conduct, and the evidence supports the verdict on the greater offense, that conviction is controlling, and the (sanders, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 736.) here, both convictions were based 7 on the same course of conductthe incident in which defendant hit amanda and pulled her hair. there was no suggestion at trial that these counts were directed to specific or separate actions. a defendant who commits a battery may not be convicted of bot[a]n assault is a necessary element of battery, and it is impossible to commit battery without assaulting the victim. (people v. ortega (1998) 19 cal.4th 686, 692, overruled on other grounds by people v. reed (2006) 38 cal.4th 1224.) the two convictions were based on the same course of conduct, so the conviction for simple assault must be reversed. because the trial court did not impose a sentence on that count, there is no related sentence to be vacated. disposition reversed. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p.j. currey, j. 